objectives: to explore the characteristics of idh and tert promoter mutations in gliomas in chinese patients.methods: a total of 124 chinese patients with gliomas were enrolled to study the frequencies of mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase (idh) and telomerase reverse transcriptase promoter (tertp). among the 124 patients, 59 patients were enrolled to study the classification of gliomas based on mutations in idh and tertp.results: isocitrate dehydrogenase mutations are positively correlated with a good prognosis but mutations in tertp cannot predict prognoses independently. the combined analysis of the mutations of idh and tertp can predict the prognosis more accurately. patients with idh and tertp glioma mutations have the best prognosis, followed by only idh mutation patients and only tertp mutation patients, which have the worst prognosis. idh and tertp mutations occur frequently in males, younger patients or lower-grade patients. in contrast, only tertp mutations occur frequently in females, older patients or higher-grade patients.conclusions: patients with idh and tertp glioma mutations have the best prognosis, and only idh mutation patients and only tertp mutation patients have the worst prognosis. moreover, the molecular classification of gliomas by mutations of idh and tertp is not suitable for pediatric patients.© 2020 the authors. brain and behavior published by wiley periodicals, inc.
objective: to investigate the demographics, natural history and treatment outcomes of non-molar gestational choriocarcinoma.design: a retrospective national population-based study setting: uk 1995-2015 population: a total of 234 women with a diagnosis of gestational choriocarcinoma, in the absence of a prior molar pregnancy, managed at the uks two gestational trophoblast centres in london and sheffield.methods: retrospective review of the patient's demographic and clinical data. comparison with contemporary uk birth and pregnancy statistics.main outcomes: incidence statistics for non-molar choriocarcinoma across the maternal age groups. cure rates for patients by figo prognostic score group.results: over the 21-year study period there were a total of 234 cases of non-molar gestational choriocarcinoma, giving an incidence of 1:66,775 relative to live births and 1:84,226 to viable pregnancies. for women aged under 20 the incidence relative to viable pregnancies was 1:223,494, for ages 30-34 1:80,227 and for ages 40-45 1:41,718. treatment outcomes indicated an overall 94.4% cure rate. divided by figo prognostic groups, the cure rates were low risk group 100%, high risk 96%, and ultra-high risk 80.5%.conclusions: non-molar gestational choriocarcinoma is a very rare diagnosis with little prior detailed information on the demographics and natural history. the data in this study gives age related incidence data based on a large national population study. the results also demonstrated the widely varying natural history of this rare malignancy and the marked correlation of disease incidence with rising maternal age.this article is protected by copyright. all rights reserved.
nutrient dynamics in storage organs is a complex developmental process that requires coordinated interactions of environmental, biochemical, and genetic factors. although sink organ developmental events have been identified, our understanding of translational and post-translational regulation of reserve synthesis, accumulation and utilization in legume crops is limited. to understand nutrient dynamics during embryonic and cotyledonary photoheterotrophic transition to mature and germinating autotrophic seeds, an integrated proteomics and phosphoproteomics study in six sequential seed developmental stages in chickpea was performed. ms/ms analyses identified 109 unique nutrient-associated proteins (naps) involved in metabolism, storage and biogenesis, and protein turnover. differences and similarities in 60 nutrient-associated phosphoproteins (napps) containing 93 phosphosites were compared with naps. data revealed accumulation of carbon-nitrogen metabolic and photosynthetic proteoforms during seed filling. furthermore, enrichment of storage proteoforms and protease inhibitors was associated with cell expansion and seed maturation. finally, combined proteoforms network analysis identified three significant modules, centered around malate dehydrogenase, hsp70, triose phosphate isomerase and vicilin. novel clues suggest that ubiquitin-proteasome pathway regulates nutrient reallocation. second, increased abundance of naps/napps related to oxidative and serine/threonine signalling indicate direct interface between redox sensing and signaling during seed development. taken together, nutrient signals act as metabolic and differentiation determinant governing storage organ reprogramming. this article is protected by copyright. all rights reserved.this article is protected by copyright. all rights reserved.
for several decades, studies conducted to evaluate the efficacy of rs(±)-baclofen in the treatment of alcohol dependence yielded contrasting results. human and animal studies recently questioned the use of the racemic drug in patients since a potential important role of the different enantiomers has been revealed with an efficacy thought to reside with the active r(+)-enantiomer. here we conducted experiments in the postdependent rat model of alcohol dependence to compare the efficacy of r(+)-baclofen or s(-)-baclofen to that of rs(±)-baclofen on ethanol intake, seeking, and relapse. r(+)-baclofen was more effective than rs(±)-baclofen in reducing ethanol intake and seeking during acute withdrawal and during relapse after abstinence. we also used an original population approach in order to identify drug responders. we found a significant proportion of responders to s(-)-baclofen and rs(±)-baclofen, displaying an increase in ethanol intake, and this increasing effect on alcohol intake was not seen in the r(+)-baclofen group. at an intermediate dose of r(+)-baclofen, devoid of any motor side effects, we identified a very large proportion of responders (75%) with a large decrease in ethanol intake (90% decrease). finally, the response to rs(±)-baclofen on ethanol intake was correlated to plasma level of baclofen. r(+)-baclofen and rs(±)-baclofen were effective in reducing sucrose intake. our study has important clinical implication since it suggests that the wide variability in the therapeutic responses of patients to rs(±)-baclofen may come from the sensitivity to the r(+)-baclofen but also to the one of the s(-)-baclofen that can promote an increase in ethanol intake.© 2020 society for the study of addiction.
background: the information of the association between residual alveolar bone height and mucosal thickening is sparse. this study aimed to explore the effect of maxillary molar periodontal status on sinus mucosal thickening using cone-beam computed tomography (cbct).methods: 194 cbct images were evaluated for the following parameters: age, gender, alveolar bone loss, maximum mucosal thickness (maxmt), minimum residual alveolar bone height (minrabh), and vertical infrabony pockets. the presence of mucosal thickening (maxmt > 2 mm) of the maxillary sinus was recorded. the parameters that could influence the dimensions of the maxillary sinus membrane were assessed. the data were analyzed using logistic regression, and multivariate linear regression with the significant level at α = 0.05.results: mucosal thickening was present in 32% of the analyzed cbct images and increased in frequency as the periodontal status of the corresponding molar progressed from mild (2.6%) to moderate (14.9%) to severe (75.5%). mucosal thickness was significantly increased in cases of moderate (odds ratio = 5.73, p<0.05) and severe (odds ratio = 82.06, p<0.001) alveolar bone loss. multivariate linear regression revealed that alveolar bone loss and minrabh had a statistically significant influence on maxmt (p<0.05).conclusions: alveolar bone loss and minrabh were significantly associated with mucosal thickening of the maxillary sinus. this article is protected by copyright. all rights reserved.this article is protected by copyright. all rights reserved.
background: the purpose of this prospective study was to compare the changes in periodontal somatosensory function and microcirculation in patients with periodontitis following initial treatment with scaling and root planing (srp) with or without adjuvant laser therapy.methods: twenty-four patients suffering from periodontitis were recruited and randomly allocated into a split-mouth design to either srp combined laser therapy side (test side) or srp only side (control side). all treatments were performed by the same investigator at a single visit. laser doppler flowmetry (ldf) and quantitative sensory testing (qst) were performed at baseline (w0), 1 week (1w), 2 weeks (2w), and 4 weeks (4w) after treatment on both sides of the attached gingiva of the maxillary lateral incisor. clinical examination including pocket probing depth (ppd) and bleeding on probing (bop) was performed at w0, 2w, and 4w on both sides. data were analyzed with two-way analysis of variance (anova).results: the ppd and bop significantly improved after treatment (p <0.001). the ldf values were significantly decreased on both sides at all follow-up time points (p <0.001), temperature was increased only on the test side (p = 0.017) whereas there was no significant change on the control side (p = 0.792). significantly less sensitivity was observed for all qst parameters (p <0.030) except for warmth detection after treatment.conclusion: adjunctive use of laser therapy did not provide any significant clinically advantage or additional effects on the recovery of periodontal somatosensory function or gingival microcirculation in the present study. this article is protected by copyright. all rights reserved.this article is protected by copyright. all rights reserved.
the use of minimally invasive surgery (mis) in pediatric patients has increased over the past decades. the process of mastering a new procedure is termed the learning curve, during which the ability to operate increases but poorer outcomes are produced. we aim to analyze the current evidence on learning curves in pediatric mis and evaluate its impact on patient's clinical outcomes. a systematic literature search was performed for studies listed on pubmed that reported on the learning curve for mis surgical procedures. studies were included if they stated the number of procedures required to reach a consistency in outcomes or if they compared outcomes between early and late period of mis experience regarding the endpoints operative time, conversions, and intra-/postoperative complications. a total of 22 articles reporting on 11 surgical procedures were included in the study. most authors reported a significant decrease in operative time as well as peri- and postoperative complications with increasing experience of the surgeon. complications ranged from minor to major, the latter being especially severe for patients receiving pyloromyotomy (5-7% higher risk of mucosal perforation), esophageal atresia repair (15% higher leakage rate and 19-77% higher stenosis rate), or kasai portoenterostomy (26-35% more liver transplants in the first year after surgery) during the learning curve period. pediatric mis comes with a considerable learning curve that may have a significant impact on the patient's clinical outcomes. efforts should be made to minimize the effect of the learning curve on the patients.georg thieme verlag kg stuttgart · new york.
introduction:  pectus carinatum (pc) is a congenital chest wall deformity which is characterized by the protrusion of the sternum and costal cartilages. although orthotic and exercise therapies are commonly offered by physicians for pc treatment, there is a lack of evidence on the benefits of exercises and how long the orthosis should be worn. the aim of this study is to investigate the effects and feasibility of custom-made compression orthosis and exercises in the treatment of pc.materials and methods:  patients with pc aged 7 to 17 years old were randomized into three groups: compression orthosis 23 hours, compression orthosis 8 hours, and control group. all groups received exercises for 1 hour a day for 3 weeks. additionally, compression orthosis 23 hours group wore the orthosis for 23 hours a day, while compression orthosis 8 hours group wore the orthosis for 8 hours a day. pc protrusion, pressure of correction, thorax lateral and anteroposterior parameters, external chest wall measurements, and nuss questionnaire were evaluated before and after the treatment. also, adverse effects, retention, and compliance were assessed. feasibility was evaluated by calculating the percentages of recruitment, retention, and safety.results:  the compression orthosis 23 hours group showed greater improvements than the other groups. after treatment, all groups showed significant changes in protrusion, pressure of correction, and external chest wall measurements. adverse events occurred with similar frequency across groups. retention percentages did not differ among groups.conclusion:  compression orthosis use for 23 hours can be recommended rather than its use for 8 hours because 23 hours of orthosis use has better correction and similar adverse effects.georg thieme verlag kg stuttgart · new york.
introduction:  research on esophageal atresia (ea) has been heavily published over the past decades. herein, we aimed to study the quantity and quality as well as key topics in ea research with regards to global collaborations among countries and authors.material and methods:  publications on ea from 1945 to 2018 were extracted from the web of science core collection database. productivity (quantity) was assessed by the number of publications. quality was estimated from the number of citations, citation rate per item and year, h-index, and impact index. collaborative networks were evaluated using vosviewer. all measures were analyzed for countries, authors, and journals. the 10 most cited original articles between 1969 and 2018 in 5-year intervals (n = 100) were manually screened to assess the key points of ea research.results:  a total of 2,170 publications from 85 countries published in 388 journals were identified yielding 26,755 citations, both significantly increasing over time (p < 0.001). the most productive countries and authors also accounted for high-quality publications and benefited from an active global network. the most productive journals derived from the field of pediatric surgery but accounted only for one-third of ea papers. the best cited journals were unspecific for pediatric surgery. long-term outcome remained the most important topic in ea research, followed by surgical techniques, epidemiology, associated anomalies, perioperative complications, and postnatal management. in contrast, basic science was underrepresented.conclusion:  over the past seven decades, ea publications increased tremendously. productiveness and quality benefited from global networking. long-term outcome remains the key interest of ea research.georg thieme verlag kg stuttgart · new york.
background: polymorphisms of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) gene are strongly associated with hypertension incidence, although such association is inconsistent among ethnicities studied. however, effects of polymorphisms of other genes related to folate metabolism besides mthfr on hypertension susceptibility are not well known yet.objective: the aim of this study was to elucidate whether methionine synthase (mtr) 2756a>g and methionine synthase reductase (mtrr) 66a>g polymorphisms might be associated with risks of hypertension susceptibility in the korean population.methods: genotyping of these two polymorphisms was performed for 232 hypertensive patients and 247 unrelated healthy controls using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism technique.results: in the present study, mutations of mtr 2756a>g and mtrr 66a>g polymorphisms were associated with increased and decreased susceptibility to hypertension, respectively. allele combinations from these two polymorphisms were also related to hypertension prevalence. when polymorphism data were stratified according to clinical components of hypertension, the g allele of mtr 2756a>g polymorphism was significantly associated with an increased risk of hypertension in subjects with bmi < 26.1 kg/m2 (p = 0.004), wc < 87.2 in. (p = 0.021), fbg < 95.5 mg/dl (p = 0.011), triglyceride < 133.5 mg/dl (p = 0.034), and hdl-cholesterol < 52.2 mg/dl (p = 0.036). the g allele of mtrr 66a>g polymorphism was significantly associated with a decreased risk of hypertension in subjects with wc ≥ 87.2 in. (p = 0.029), fbg ≥ 95.5 mg/dl (p = 0.032) and triglyceride ≥ 133.5 mg/dl (p = 0.027).conclusion: mtr 2756a>g and mtrr 66a>g polymorphisms related to folate metabolism might be genetic markers for risk of hypertension in the korean population.
introduction: human papillomavirus (hpv) is among the reported etiologies of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (lscc). understanding the impact of hpv on lscc may help reduce its incidence. this study investigates the association between hpv and lscc as well as the roles for different immunohistochemical stains in hpv detection.methods: a total of fifty-two formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue samples of lscc, diagnosed between 2005 and 2015, were obtained from the archives of the pathology department. the samples were stained and processed to evaluate the relationship of hpv to lscc.results: patients had a mean age of 65.02 ± 14.341 years. by polymerase chain reaction (pcr), high-risk strains of hpv were detected in 15.4% of tissue samples. hpv-16 was found in 75% of the positive samples for an overall prevalence of 13.5%. p16 immunostaining was positive in 15.4% of cases while cyclin b and cyclin e were positive in 65.4% and 76.9%, respectively. over half of the cases were histologically graded as moderately-differentiated, 28.8% as well-differentiated, and 15.4% as poorly-differentiated.discussion: the prevalence of hpv-positive lscc was lower than previously stated in the literature. hpv-16 was the most commonly detected subtype, in concordance with the findings of multiple other studies. hpv-positive lscc trended with higher histologic grade. p16 and cyclin e immunohistochemical stains were of limited use in identifying hpv in lscc. in contrast, cyclin b had a high sensitivity which could be used to rule out hpv in lscc.
introduction: each dermatological condition associated with the presence of visible skin lesions can evoke the following psychological response of the patient: shame, anxiety, anger, or even depression. psoriasis may additionally be a cause of social rejection, which significantly impairs a patient's private life and social functioning, and may contribute to stigmatization, alienation, and deterioration of their quality of life. the aim of the study was to determine the level of stigmatization and the quality of life of persons with psoriasis in relation to sociodemographic characteristics.methods: the study, which included 166 patients with plaque psoriasis, was carried out with the 33-item feelings of stigmatization questionnaire, dermatology life quality index (dlqi), and a dedicated sociodemographic survey.results: compared with women, men had higher stigmatization scores in the "feeling of being flawed" domain (p = 0.0362), and patients up to 30 years of age scored higher on the "guilt and shame" domain ([formula: see text] = 17.1 points) than those older than 30 years ([formula: see text] = 14.6 points). also, persons with visible skin lesions presented with higher stigmatization levels in the "guilt and shame" domain than those without (p = 0.0028). quality of life in persons with psoriasis did not depend on sociodemographic parameters but correlated significantly with two stigmatization domains, "sensitivity to the opinions of others" (r = 0.31; p = 0.0030) and "positive attitudes" (r = 0.27; p = 0.0115).conclusions: as stigmatization is a social problem, only greater social awareness of psoriasis may contribute to better understanding and broader acceptance of patients with this dermatosis. to help them to cope with the stigmatization and hence to improve their quality of life, persons with psoriasis should be provided with psychological counselling.
the long noncoding rna (lncrna) linc00520 is an important modulator of the oncogenicity of multiple human cancers. however, whether linc00520 is involved in the malignant characteristics of colorectal cancer (crc) has not been extensively studied until recently. therefore, the present study aimed to detect linc00520 expression in crc and evaluate its clinical significance in patients with crc. functional experiments were conducted to test the biological roles and underlying mechanisms of linc00520 in crc progression. in this study, high-linc00520 expression was verified in crc tissues and cell lines, and this high expression was associated with patients' unfavorable clinicopathological parameters and shorter overall survival and disease-free survival. functionally, interference of linc00520 resulted in a significant decrease of crc cell proliferation, migration, colony forming ability, and invasion. mechanistically, linc00520 functioned as a competing endogenous rna by sponging microrna-577 (mir-577) and thereby increasing heat shock protein 27 (hsp27) expression. rescue experiments revealed that inhibiting mir-577 or restoring hsp27 could abrogate the effects of linc00520 silencing on malignant phenotypes of crc. linc00520 functioned as an oncogenic lncrna in crc, and it facilitated crc progression by regulating the mir-577/hsp27 axis, suggesting that the linc00520/mir-577/hsp27 axis is an effective target in anticancer management.
this study aimed to investigate the usefulness of the thyroid-related hormones as markers of acute systemic hypoxia/ischemia to identify deaths caused by asphyxiation due to neck compression in human autopsy cases. the following deaths from pathophysiological conditions were examined: mechanical asphyxia and acute/subacute blunt head injury; acute/subacute non-head blunt injury; sharp instrument injury as the hemorrhagic shock condition; drowning as alveolar injury; burn; and death due to cardiac dysfunction. blood samples were collected from the left and right cardiac chambers and iliac veins, and serum triiodothyronine (t3), thyroxine (t4), thyroglobulin (tg), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (tsh) levels were measured using electrochemiluminescence immunoassays. two types of thyroid cell lines were used to confirm independent thyroid function under the condition of hypoxia (3% o2). the human thyroid carcinoma cell line (hothc) cell line derived from human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma and the ud-ptc (sample of the second resection papillary thyroid carcinoma) cell line derived from human thyroid papillary adenoma, which forms tg retention follicles, were used to examine the secretion levels of t3, t4, and tg hormones. the results showed a strong correlation between t3 and t4 levels in all blood sampling sites, while the tsh and tg levels were not correlated with the other markers. serum t3 and t4 levels were higher in cases of mechanical asphyxia and acute/subacute blunt head injury, representing hypoxic and ischemic conditions of the brain as compared to those in other causes of death. in the thyroid gland cell line, t4, t3, and tg levels were stimulated after exposure to hypoxia for 10-30 min. these findings suggest that systemic advanced hypoxia/ischemia may cause a rapid and tsh-independent release of t3 and t4 thyroid hormones in autopsy cases. these findings demonstrate that increased thyroid-related hormone (t3 and t4) levels in the pathophysiological field may indicate systemic hypoxia/ischemia.
the present study investigated the antitumor activity and chemopreventive effects of a nanoparticle formulation of curcumin in preclinical models of mouse pten-deficient prostate cancer. the antitumor activity of the nanoparticle curcumin was evaluated in mouse castration-naïve (7113-d3) and castration-resistant prostate cancer (2945-e10) derived cell lines in vitro. cell viability was reduced in both cell lines in a dose and time-dependent manner. the effects of long-term dietary supplementation with the nanoparticle curcumin formulation were evaluated in a conditional pten-deficient mouse model. prostate tissues from pten-deficient prostate cancers were obtained after sixteen weeks of dietary supplementation of 76 mg/kg/day or 380 mg/kg/day nanoparticle curcumin. daily supplementation of nanoparticle curcumin did not affect mouse bodyweights or spleen size but did result in enlargement of the liver. dietary supplementation did not influence tumor burden, however, mice fed high-dose curcumin had lower cancer cell proliferation rates at 12 and 16 weeks of age. together, these results show that daily supplementation of a nanoparticle formulation of curcumin is tolerable and suggest that curcumin could have chemopreventive activity in early-stage prostate cancer.
introduction: clinical data have demonstrated prolongation of the qtc interval associated with domperidone use. the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias (sva) in clinical practice in china has not been investigated.methods: the incidence of sva and all-cause cardiac arrest associated with medications for gastrointestinal disorders in china was assessed in a retrospective cohort study using information from electronic medical record databases from the xijing and guangzhou general hospitals. inpatients and outpatients with at least one prescription for domperidone, mosapride/itopride, metoclopramide, a proton pump inhibitor (ppi), or histamine h2 receptor antagonist were identified in the hospital databases from january 1, 2009 to december 31, 2014.results: the inpatient exposure cohorts included 66,282 inpatients at xijing and 23,643 inpatients at guangzhou hospitals. there were 67 cases of sva and two cases of sva at the respective hospitals during the study period. three cases (all at xijing) occurred in patients prescribed domperidone (incidence rate 2.9/100 person-years (pys), 95% ci 0.9-9.0) compared to 1.3/100 pys (95% ci 0.2-8.9) for mosapride/itopride and 5.6/100 pys (95% ci 4.4-7.2) for ppis. the hazard ratio adjusted for age, sex, and co-morbidities for sva in patients prescribed domperidone compared to ppis was 0.79 (95% ci 0.25-2.56). there were 44 cases of all-cause cardiac arrest at xijing and 21 at guangzhou hospital. three patients had received domperidone and all had underlying cardiovascular diseases.conclusions: sva and cardiac arrest are very rare events in patients prescribed medications for gastrointestinal disorders in china. we found no evidence that domperidone carried a higher risk of sva compared to other gastrointestinal medications.
background: diabetes mellitus (dm) plays an important role in restenosis and late in-stent thrombosis (st). the current study using optical coherence tomography (oct) aims to compare target lesion neointima in patients with or without diabetes after zotarolimus-eluting stent (zes) treatment.methods: oct images of 90,212 struts and quantitative coronary angiography (qca) in 62 patients (32 with dm and 30 without dm) with 69 de novo coronary lesions (34 dm and 35 non-dm) both after zes implantation and 12 ± 1 month angiographic follow-up were recorded. patient characteristics, lesion characteristics, clinical outcomes, and oct findings including neointimal thickness, coverage, malapposition, and intimal morphology were analyzed.results: baseline patient characteristics and lesion characteristics data were similar between the two groups. higher neointimal thickness (0.14 ± 0.09 mm vs. 0.09 ± 0.04 mm, p = 0.021), more neovascularization (3.03 ± 6.24 vs. 0.52 ± 1.87, p = 0.017) and higher incidence of layered signal pattern (12.19 ± 19.91% vs. 4.28 ± 9.02%, p = 0.049) were observed in diabetic lesions comparing with non-diabetic lesions. no differences were found in malapposition, uncovered percentage, and thrombus between the two groups (all p > 0.05). occurrence of clinical adverse events was also similar during the follow-up period (p > 0.05).conclusion: although more neointimal proliferation and more neovascularization were found in diabetic coronary lesions when compared with non-diabetic lesions, treatment with zes showed similar stent malapposition rate at 1-year follow-up. the data indicated that zes treatment could possibly be effective in treating diabetic coronary lesions.trial registration: clinicaltrials.gov identifier, nct01747356.
introduction: fluoroquinolones are widely used to treat bacterial infections. many in vitro and in vivo studies have established a chemical relationship between fluoroquinolones' particular chemical structure and photosensitivity. the aim of this study was to establish a relationship between the chemical structure of fluoroquinolones and the risk of photosensitivity adverse effects from real-world data.methods: all the individual case safety reports (icsrs) related to fluoroquinolones and registered in the world health organization global database (vigibase®) up to december 31, 2017 were collected. a disproportionality analysis was performed in order to quantify the photosensitivity risk for each fluoroquinolone by calculating their reporting odds ratio (ror).results: up to december 31, 2017, 282,805 icsrs related to fluoroquinolones were selected, of which 1647 were photosensitivity adverse event cases. sparfloxacin had the highest adjusted ror of 161.10 (95% confidence interval [ci] 133.66-194.02) followed by grepafloxacin (40.30 [26.30-59.60]) closely followed by lomefloxacin (32.61 [28.61-37.07]), then enoxacin (11.04 [8.33-14.32]) and fleroxacin (8.22 [5.06-12.56]).conclusion: this study confirms the high reporting rate of photosensitivity adverse effects for sparfloxacin from real-world data. moreover, our data suggest more photosensitivity adverse effects reporting for fluoroquinolones with a halogen at their 8th position.
this paper emphasises the important role that place has in determining how religious social processes operate and impact on health and wellbeing. it draws upon evidence through qualitative in-depth interviews with families (both parents and children) living in two deprived neighbourhoods in malta, a 'traditional' and a 'modern' one. it emerged that religious faith and practices can generate normative and resource-based social capital which can positively impact on health and wellbeing. however, some individuals found this social capital constraining and this had detrimental effects on their wellbeing. the context, composition, history and norms of the place emerge as highly important. this study emphasises that religious social processes operate in a highly complex manner, and 'adherents' and 'disaffiliates' are likely to enjoy positive or negative health and wellbeing according to where they live and according to important persons living in the neighbourhood such as the parish priest. this study contributes to the research gap between religion, social capital and health and the complex, social processes that operate at the local level of place.
the swift endorsement of the robotic surgical platform indicates that it might prevail as the preferred technique for many complex abdominal and pelvic operations. nonetheless, use of the surgical robotic system introduces further layers of complexity into the operating theatre necessitating new training models. instructive videos with relevant exposition could be optimal for early training in robotic surgery and the aim of this study was to develop consensus guidelines on how to report a robotic surgery video for educational purposes to achieve high quality educational video outputs that could enhance surgical training. a steering group prepared a delphi survey of 46 statements, which was distributed and voted on utilising an electronic survey tool. the selection of committee members was designed to include representative surgical trainers worldwide across different specialties, including lower and upper gastrointestinal surgery, general surgery, gynaecology and urology. 36 consensus statements were approved and classified in seven categories: author's information and video introduction, case presentation, demonstration of the surgical procedure, outcomes of the procedure, associated educational content, review of surgical videos quality and use of surgical videos in educational curricula. consensus guidelines on how to report robotic surgery videos for educational purposes have been elaborated utilising delphi methodology. we recommend that adherence to the guidelines presented could support advancing the educational quality of video outputs when designed for training.
background: ofra is a large health insurance fund-driven program which aims to reduce the risk of falls and fractures in older people living in rural areas. the programme offered specific mobility and falls prevention classes and bone density measurement by a dxa scan free of charge to more than 10,000 people, and was promoted by staff of the health insurance fund either by a visit at home, or a phone call, or a visit at home and a subsequent phone call. the aim of this study was to analyse the uptake of an exercise class and the use of a dxa scan after advice.methods: telephone interviews were conducted in a randomly selected subgroup of 780 persons 9 months after first contact. rates of uptake of an exercise class or use of a dxa scan were calculated. predictors of uptake and use were analysed applying logistic regression models.results: the rate of uptake after advice for specific mobility and fall prevention class was 29.6%. for dxa scan, the rate of use after advice was 16.7%. rates of uptake and use increased if the first contact by a visit at home or a phone call was followed by an additional subsequent phone call.conclusion: a direct motivational approach in older people by a health insurance fund is feasible and results in relevant participation and utilization rates in exercise classes and dxa scans.
previous studies have showed clinical characteristics of patients with the 2019 novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) and the evidence of person-to-person transmission. limited data are available for asymptomatic infections. this study aims to present the clinical characteristics of 24 cases with asymptomatic infection screened from close contacts and to show the transmission potential of asymptomatic covid-19 virus carriers. epidemiological investigations were conducted among all close contacts of covid-19 patients (or suspected patients) in nanjing, jiangsu province, china, from jan 28 to feb 9, 2020, both in clinic and in community. asymptomatic carriers were laboratory-confirmed positive for the covid-19 virus by testing the nucleic acid of the pharyngeal swab samples. their clinical records, laboratory assessments, and chest ct scans were reviewed. as a result, none of the 24 asymptomatic cases presented any obvious symptoms while nucleic acid screening. five cases (20.8%) developed symptoms (fever, cough, fatigue, etc.) during hospitalization. twelve (50.0%) cases showed typical ct images of ground-glass chest and 5 (20.8%) presented stripe shadowing in the lungs. the remaining 7 (29.2%) cases showed normal ct image and had no symptoms during hospitalization. these 7 cases were younger (median age: 14.0 years; p=0.012) than the rest. none of the 24 cases developed severe covid-19 pneumonia or died. the median communicable period, defined as the interval from the first day of positive nucleic acid tests to the first day of continuous negative tests, was 9.5 days (up to 21 days among the 24 asymptomatic cases). through epidemiological investigation, we observed a typical asymptomatic transmission to the cohabiting family members, which even caused severe covid-19 pneumonia. overall, the asymptomatic carriers identified from close contacts were prone to be mildly ill during hospitalization. however, the communicable period could be up to three weeks and the communicated patients could develop severe illness. these results highlighted the importance of close contact tracing and longitudinally surveillance via virus nucleic acid tests. further isolation recommendation and continuous nucleic acid tests may also be recommended to the patients discharged.
aim: to study and explore the intervention of the flash glucose monitoring system (fgms) on diabetes-related distress (drd) in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes (t1d).methods: a 12-week prospective study was performed from march 2019 to july 2019 involving 187 children and adolescents (age range 13-19 years; 56.7% female) with t1d who were self-testing their glucose levels using the conventional fingerprick method. at the time of the baseline visit, fgms sensors were fixed by a trained diabetes educator onto each patient in the study population. a trained interviewer also administered the 28-item t1-diabetes distress scale (t1-dds) questionnaire to each participant at the baseline visit and again after 12 weeks to determine the t1-dds score.results: comparison of the baseline (fingerprick) data with data collected at 12 weeks after the patients had switched to the fgms revealed a significant decrease in the subdomains of the t1-dds as follows: powerlessness (p = 0.0001); management distress (p = 0.0001); hypoglycemia distress (p = 0.0001); negative social perceptions (p = 0.0001); eating (p = 0.0001); physician distress (p = 0.0001); friend/family distress (p = 0.0001); and total t1-dds score (p = 0.0001). similarly, analysis of the data revealed that there was also a substantial drop from baseline to 12 weeks after initiation of the intervention in the clinical variables assessed, such as glycosylated hemoglobin; specifically, there was a considerable decrease after 12 weeks in the frequency of hypoglycemia. interestingly, the frequency of glucose monitoring also showed an upswing among users of the fgms.conclusion: the outcomes of this study clearly demonstrate that once the patients had been switched from the fingerprick method to fgms, the drd and related clinical parameters showed remarkable improvement. however, further studies are necessary to determine whether the continued and consistent use of the fgms will achieve better results.
many members of the family gesneriaceae are cultivated as ornamental plants, including cape primrose (streptocarpus) species. the range of plant architecture found in this genus has also made it a model to study leaf and meristem development and their evolution. however, the lack of tools to study gene functions through reverse genetics in streptocarpus has limited the exploitation of its genetic potential. to aid functional genomic studies in streptocarpus rexii, we sought to investigate virus-induced gene silencing (vigs). using the broad host range tobacco rattle virus (trv) to target the phytoene desaturase (pds) gene of s. rexii, we show that infection with sap from nicotiana benthamiana triggered vigs efficiently. vigs was most effective in the seedling leaves 8 weeks after sowing, but was limited in duration and systemic spread. this study reports the first successful use of vigs in streptocarpus and in the family gesneriaceae. the inoculation of viral sap derived from n. benthamiana was able to overcome the difficulties of standard agrobacterium-mediated transformation in this genus. irrespective of its transient effect, this vigs system will be useful to assess gene function at the cellular level and represent an important tool for further understanding molecular mechanisms in streptocarpus.
background: the broad aim of this study was to compare the safety and efficacy of using barbed sutures versus standard-of-care sutures for closure of arthrotomy during total knee arthroplasty. specifically, we compared the duration of arthrotomy closure, the number of sutures utilized for arthrotomy closure, and 90-day outcomes, including wound-related readmission, reoperation, and complications.materials and methods: a total of 60 patients undergoing primary total knee arthroplasty were enrolled in a prospective, blinded trial and randomized to receive either running closure of the arthrotomy with barbed sutures (n = 30) or interrupted closure with standard-of-care sutures (n = 30).results: arthrotomy closure time was significantly shorter in the barbed suture group (3 min ± 2 min) versus the standard-of-care group (13 min ± 5 min, p < 0.001). the average suture utilization for arthrotomy closure was 1 suture (range 1-2) versus 3 sutures (range 2-4) in the standard-of-care group (p < 0.001). the overall number of wound-related complications in the barbed suture group was 3/30 (10%) versus 3/30 (10%) in the standard-of-care group (p = 1.00). there was one dehiscence 1/30 (3%) in the standard-of-care group versus zero in the barbed suture group (p = 1.00). the rate of superficial surgical site infection was 1/30 (3%) in barbed suture versus zero in the standard-of-care groups (p = 1.00).conclusion: these results suggest barbed suture utilization may be faster and more resource-efficient than the use of standard-of-care sutures for arthrotomy closure in primary total knee arthroplasty without increased complications. clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct03285529.
the objective of the current study was to isolate and identify staphylococcus (s.) aureus strains resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics from primiparous cows' milk. a total of 432 milk samples were collected from all primiparous dairy cows in early lactation that originated from 9 dairy properties. all samples were cultured in mannitol salt agar enriched with egg yolk emulsion. determination of genotypic resistance of s. aureus was achieved by polymerase chain reaction (pcr) for amplification of the blaz, meca, and mecc genes. phenotypic resistance of s. aureus strains was evaluated by minimal inhibitory concentration (mic) technique using broth microdilutions of penicillin g and oxacillin. from all the mammary quarters examined, s. aureus strains were detected in 27 out of 432 (6.25%) milk samples (ci95%, 4.33-8.84). from all dairy properties visited, only two out of 9 were found to have s. aureus. hence, it was possible to evaluate genotypic and phenotypic resistance in 27 samples from two dairy farms. the isolates of s. aureus had a frequency of (20/27) 74.07% to blaz gene (ci95%, 57.5-90.6), whereas meca and mecc genes were not observed. according to mic results, penicillin g had a 74.07% (20/27) resistance rate (ci95%, 57.5-90.6) and oxacillin had a 14.81% (4/27) resistance rate (ci95%, 1.4-28.2). thus, the circulation of s. aureus strains resistant to beta-lactams has been confirmed in primiparous dairy cows in the northeastern region of brazil, indicating the need for new management strategies involving the use of beta-lactam drugs to treat mastitis, discouraging and/or limiting their use. also, it is important to highlight the need for further studies on epidemiology and traceability of the pathogen.
the experiment was conducted to study the effect of feeding diets with quality protein maize (qpm) along with cottonseed meal (csm) and guar meal (gm) on nutrient utilization, body weight (bw) gain (bwg), feed efficiency, and antioxidant status in broiler chickens. the biological trial was conducted on day-old broiler chicks (n = 240), which were randomly distributed into 6 dietary groups having 8 replicates with 5 chicks. six experimental diets were formulated to contain maize (diet i), qpm (diet ii), maize+csm80 g/kg + gm40 g/kg (diet iii), maize + csm120 g/kg + gm60 g/kg (diet iv), qpm+csm80 g/kg + gm40 g/kg (diet v), and qpm+csm120 g/kg + gm60g/kg (diet vi). the bwg and feed intake were recorded at weekly intervals. supplementation of csm and gm along with qpm or maize depressed (p < 0.05) bwg, feed conversion ratio, and slaughter variables in commercial broilers. improvement of bwg and breast weight was recorded among the groups supplemented 80 g/kg csm and 40 g/kg gm with a qpm-based diet compared with those groups fed 120 g/kg csm and 60 g/kg gm with maize or qpm. the energy and protein utilization decreased among the groups supplemented csm and gm. however, protein and energy utilization was increased (p < 0.05) among the groups fed qpm-based diets compared with those groups fed csm and gm with maize or qpm. therefore, it has been concluded that the performance and other parameters did not differ between the groups fed maize- and qpm-based diets in the present experiment. however, qpm with csm and gm improved the performance, slaughter parameters, and nutrient utilization over csm and gm with maize.
burns are one of the most common injuries that are complicated by many challenges including infection, severe inflammatory response, excessive expression of proteases, and scar formation. the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of botulinum toxin type a (bo) and aprotinin (ap) separately or in combination (bo-ap) in healing process. four burn wounds were created in each rat and randomly filled with silver sulfadiazine (ssd), bo, ap and bo-ap. the rats were euthanized after 7, 14, and 28 days, and their harvested wound samples were evaluated by gross pathology, histopathology, gene expression, biochemical testing, and scanning electron microscopy. both bo and ap significantly reduced expression of interleukin-1β (il-1β) and transforming growth factor-β1 (tgf-β1) at the 7th post wounding day. moreover, they inhibited scar formation by reducing the tgf-β1 level and increasing basic fibroblast growth factor (bfgf) at the 28th day. ap by decreasing protease production showed more effective role than bo in wound regeneration. ap increased tissue organization and maturation and improved cosmetic appearance of wounds, at 28 days. the best results gained when combination of bo and ap were used in healing of burn wounds. treatment by bo-ap significantly subsided inflammation compared to the bo, ap, and ssd treated wounds. treatment with bo-ap also reduced collagen density and led to minimal scar formation. combination of botulinum toxin type a and aprotinin considerably increased structural and functional properties of the healing wounds by reducing scar formation and decreasing production of proteases.
an abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) is a relatively common, life-threatening disease prevalent in persons over the age of 65. in recent years, an increasing number of studies have suggested that pattern-recognition receptors (prrs), including toll-like receptors (tlrs), may serve as important regulators in the development of aaas. in this study, we evaluated the tlr2 and tlr4 expression in the aortic wall and blood of patients with aaa. the tlr2 and tlr4 mrna expression were significantly higher in the blood of patients with aaa than in the blood of healthy volunteers (p = 0.009 and p = 0.010, respectively). the expression of tlr2 and tlr4 transcripts was also higher in the blood compared with the aortic wall tissue of aaa patients (p = 0.001 for both). higher tlr2 protein expression was observed in the aortic wall of aaa patients compared with the blood (p = 0.026). a significantly higher concentration of tnf-α and il-4 in patients with aaa than in healthy volunteers (p < 0.001 for both) was noticed. this study suggests that tlr2 may play a role in the inflammatory response in the aorta, both locally and systemically, in patients with aaa.
for several years, the number of studies on the links between excessive mobile phone use and mental health has been increasing. the aim of the study was to establish if there is a relationship between mobile phone addiction and depression in university students and if phubbing is a mediator of this relationship. the authors also tested if this mediation effect was moderated by loneliness and if the model of relationships between these variables was the same in women and in men. the participants were 402 university and college students from ukraine, aged 17 to 31; 74% of them were women. the authors used the adapted mobile phone use habits, the phubbing scale, the center for epidemiologic studies depression scale, and the loneliness scale. the results of the study have shown that higher mobile phone addiction and higher phubbing is associated with a higher level of depressive moods, with phubbing functioning as a mediator of the relationship between mobile phone addiction and depression. a moderator of this mediation is loneliness, the moderation effect being asymmetrically dependent on gender: in men, high loneliness increases the mediating role of phubbing, which more markedly translates into depression, while in women the analyzed mediation effect becomes weaker with an increase in the sense of loneliness (phubbing correlates less strongly with depression).
bauxite residue is a high volume by-product generated during the extraction of alumina from bauxite ore (bayer process). the long-term containment of residue is associated with environmental risks due to potential dusting and surface run-off. while rehabilitation of residue is viewed as a suitable approach for minimizing this risk, there is need for completion criteria. in particular, elevated sodium and aluminium are cited as inhibitory to plant growth and guideline values for satisfactory exchangeable sodium percentage (esp) vary. further, there is little information on the efficiency of standard soil assessment techniques in predicting plant available amounts of al and na for rehabilitated residue. this work aimed to evaluate the efficiency of soil extractants (nh4oac and nh4cl for cation; kcl for al) for determining cation and al content in field rehabilitated bauxite residue after 1 and 8 years. depending on the method used, the esp of residue varied significantly, and all were above the standard guideline values. successful establishment of holcus lanatus l. (yorkshire fog) over 8 years together with absence of nutrient deficiency or elevated uptake of na and al indicates that the proposed esp target of < 9.5 is both stringent and difficult to achieve under field conditions. findings indicate that at esp of ca. 20% (determined using nh4oac) and 30-40% (using nh4cl) may be more realistic target values for establishing vegetation in rehabilitated bauxite residue.
this study investigated the distribution and transformation behaviors of heavy metals (hms) and phosphorus (p) during hydrothermal carbonization (htc) of sewage sludge. in addition to a large reduction in sludge volume, htc significantly decreased the exchangeable fraction of hms (zn, cu, cr, ni, and mn) and increased their residual fraction, which resulted in immobilization of hms accumulated in hydrochar. the ecological toxicity of hms was greatly reduced, and all hms exhibited their lowest risk levels after htc at 220 °c for 1 h in 2% h2so4 solution. most of the p (~ 97%) in the input sludge remained in the hydrochar after htc. htc facilitated transformation of organic p to inorganic p and promoted conversion of apatite p to non-apatite inorganic p under acidic conditions. the feasibility of recovering p from sludge by htc was verified by an acid extraction experiment utilizing hydrochar, which recovered more than 90% p. graphical abstract.
in this study, we investigate the performance of a fenton-like process carried out adding as amendments humic acids extracted from compost obtained from organic wastes. namely, fenton-like lab-scale tests with different dosages of the extracted humic acids and traditional stabilizing agent (kh2po4) were performed on a diesel-contaminated soil collected in a former gasoline station. the performed tests showed a beneficial effect of the extracted humic acids on the hydrogen peroxide stability. namely, the h2o2 lifetime in the tests carried out without the addition of any amendments proved to be quite limited, resulting equal to around 1 h. the adoption of the extracted humic acids alone entailed a limited increase of the hydrogen peroxide stability that anyhow was detected in solution for 24 h using 10 g/l of extracted ha. when the humic acids (10 g/l) were used in combination with kh2po4 (8.2 g/l), the hydrogen peroxide lifetime increased up to around 150 h. a beneficial effect of the humic acids extracted from compost for a fenton-like process was also observed in terms of diesel removal. namely, without any amendment, a contaminant removal of around 55% was observed. using kh2po4 or ha alone, the contaminant removal raised up to around 75% while using the traditional stabilizer together with the humic acids extracted from compost, it was possible to remove up to 90% of the initial diesel content of the soil.
the emission of carbon dioxide (co2) is a serious environmental issue, especially in beijing-tianjin-hebei region. unlike previous studies that mainly consider the bilateral and direct connection between two sectors, this study identifies path-based key sectors by considering the cascading effect of a sector on other sectors on paths of the entire economic system. we first construct an embodied co2 emission flow network of beijing-tianjin-hebei region, combining environmental input-output analysis and complex network theory. then, the path-based key sectors are identified by traversing the path of each sector in the network based on cascading failure theory and hypothesis extraction method. on the one hand, the results show that a small number of sectors shoulder a large proportion of the embodied co2 emission flows from both path and sector perspectives. on the other hand, we identify some path-based key sectors that did not receive enough attention from the sector perspective. additionally, the sum of the embodied co2 emission flows in about 30 steps accounts for 90% of the total embodied co2 emission flows on its supply chain path. to more effectively reduce carbon emission, sectors that connect these 30 steps should be concerned in some policy recommendations. the method proposed in this paper can complement existing methods and contribute to further reducing co2 emissions in the beijing-tianjin-hebei region.
fluoride (f), anion of fluorine which is naturally present in soil and water, behaves as toxic inorganic pollutant even at lower concentration and needs immediate attention. its interaction with flora, fauna and other forms of life, such as microbes, adversely affect various physiochemical parameters by interfering with several metabolic pathways. conventional methods of f remediation are time-consuming, laborious and cost intensive, which renders them uneconomical for sustainable agriculture. the solution lies in cracking down this environmental contaminant by adopting economic, eco-friendly, cost-effective and modern technologies. biological processes, viz. bioremediation involving the use of bacteria, fungi, algae and higher plants that holds promising alternative to manage f pollution, recover contaminated soil and improve vegetation. the efficiency of indigenous natural agents may be enhanced, improved and selected over the hazardous chemicals in sustainable agriculture. this review article emphasizes on various biological approaches for the remediation of f-contaminated environment, and exploring their potential applications in environmental clean-up. it further focuses on thorough systemic study of modern biotechnological approaches such as gene editing and gene manipulation techniques for enhancing the plant-microbe interactions for f degradation, drawing attention towards latest progresses in the field of microbial assisted treatment of f-contaminated ecosystems. future research and understanding of the molecular mechanisms of f bioremediation would add on to the possibilities of the application of more competent strains showing striking results under diverse ecological conditions.
in the context of the global amphibian crisis, biomonitoring constitutes a valuable assessment tool to provide critical up to date information on the status and health of amphibians worldwide. the aim of the current study was to evaluate the possible confounding effects of sex, size, and time since capture on enzymatic biomarkers and hematologic parameters of the south american frog leptodactylus latrans. frogs were collected by hand between 9 pm and 12 am on two consecutive nights. on the first night, captured frogs were transported for 2 h by car to laboratory installations, maintained overnight in plastic containers, and blood and tissue sampled on the next morning. in contrast, frogs collected on the second night were blood and tissue sampled in the field, immediately after the capture period. hematological parameters were analyzed, and enzymatic activities of catalase, cholinesterase (che), and glutathione s-transferase (gst) were determined in the plasma, liver, kidney, and muscle. a sex difference was observed only for total white blood cell counts (wbc), females exhibiting significantly greater values than males. the packed cell volume (pcv), mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (mchc), wbc, and muscle che activity were significantly correlated with snout-vent length (svl). the correlation was inversed in the case of mchc, wbc, and muscle che, while the correlation was positive between pcv and svl. most examined parameters presented similar values when frogs were sampled at night following capture or the next morning. total red blood cells (rbcs) count, and plasma enzymatic activities of che and gst were the only parameters that presented significantly increased values in morning samplings compared with night samplings. overall, the current study indicates that it is best to sample the frogs as soon as possible after capture if hematologic or plasmatic biomarkers are examined. nevertheless, it is possible to sample on the next morning if tissular biomarkers are employed.
with the continuous development of green manufacturing concept, more and more enterprises attempt to increase their green investment to promote the utilization of resources. in order to help enterprises make the optimal green investment decision, firstly, this paper constructs a duopoly competition game model based on the manufacturer's limited rationality. then, the nash equilibrium solution of the system is discussed by using the reverse induction method. finally, the system is simulated to study the green input decision and the impact of green input cost on the manufacturer's output and profit. by adding external control signals, the chaos state of duopoly competition game model is restrained. the results show that the manufacturer's optimal green investment portfolio lies in the stable region of nash equilibrium. secondly, in the duopoly competition game model, when the initial value of green input adjustment rate and cost changes slightly, the evolution of production and profit of manufacturing enterprises will be greatly different. thirdly, the study revealed that the addition of external control signals can effectively control the chaotic situation of the market and subsequently restore the order of the participants and the market. therefore, our research provides a reference for enterprises to make green input decision; improve the efficiency and rationality of enterprise management and further promote the green development of enterprises.
metal(loid) contamination of vital food grains such as wheat and rice is a very serious problem throughout the world because consumption of such contaminated food can lead to severe health effects in humans. metal(loid) contamination of food crops can occur from different sources such as contaminated soil, irrigation water, and aerial deposition. therefore, the present study was conducted to analyze potential non-carcinogenic and carcinogenic health impacts posed by different metal(loid)s (as cd, co, cr, cu, fe, mn, mo, ni, pb, se, and zn) via consumption of wheat and rice grown on metal(loid)-contaminated soils in areas around rivers (beas and sutlej) of punjab, india. among the metal(loid)s analyzed in wheat and rice samples, contents of as, cd, cr, ni, and pb were found to be above the international (fao/who and eu) maximum permissible limits. the non-carcinogenic and carcinogenic health risk assessment of individual metal(loid)s revealed that as posed highest risk followed by cd, cu, fe, mn, and pb. the values of indices calculated for analysis of combined non-carcinogenic, i.e., (hazard index; range 3.49-15.94) and carcinogenic (total carcinogenic risk index; range 8.30 × 10-4-131.62 × 10-4) risks for both crops were found to be many fold higher than the prescribed limits of 1.0 and 1.0 × 10-4, respectively. thus, the analysis of combined risks posed by metal(loid)s indicated that human population consuming wheat and rice from the study area faced both non-carcinogenic and carcinogenic health risks. therefore, immediate steps must be taken to reduce the levels of metal(loid)s in wheat and rice from the study area.
the aim of this study is to evaluate the polyphenolic and flavonoid contents in the leaves extracts of ruscus hypophyllum. antioxidant activity was estimated by α,α-diphenyl-β-picrylhydrazyl (dpph) and 2,2'-azino-bis-3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (abts) assays. the anticoagulant activity of ruscus extracts was evaluated in vitro, using the prothrombin time (pt) and a ptt-activated partial thromboplastin time tests. the antibacterial activity was tested against large number of important medically and resistant bacteria by the broth dilution method. in this study, ethyl acetate and chloroform extracts displayed the highest total phenols contents (74.76 mg eag/g and 73.89 mg eag/g, respectively) and flavonoid content 40 and 32.43 mg ec/g, respectively. the gc-ms analysis of ethyl acetate extract confirmed the presence of oxygenated sesquiterpenes and hydrocarbon diterpenes with percentages of 16.41% and 10.72%, respectively, but chloroform extract was rich with, oxygenated monoterpenes, and oxygenated diterpenes, with percentages of 6.19 and 3.27%, respectively. among tested extracts, ethyl acetate exhibited the best antioxidant and anticoagulant activities. furthermore, ethyl acetate and chloroform extracts showed important antibacterial activity against resistant bacteria methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (sarm), acinetobacter imipenem-resistant (imp/r), p. aeruginosa imipenem-resistant (imp/r) and extended-spectrum beta-lactamase producing e. cloacae (blse) with minimal inhibitory concentration (mic) values varying between 0.125 and 0.5 mg/ml.
in this study, the experimental and kinetic modeling investigations were performed to evaluate the ability of mesoporous and microporous canola stalk-derived activated carbon (csac) on 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-d) removal from synthetic and natural water in both batch and continuous systems. three empirical models (pseudo-first-order equation (pfoe), pseudo-second-order equation (psoe), and the elovich equation (ee)) and three theoretical models (film diffusion model (fdm), particle diffusion model (pdm), and second-order chemical reaction rate model (socrrm)) were compared in terms of diffusion coefficients, maximum 2,4-d adsorption, and rate constants at various operating conditions. csac was prepared at 600 °c and activated with water steam under a controlled flow and subsequently characterized by various analytical methods. the results showed that the maximum 2,4-d uptake by csac was achieved as 135.8 mg g-1 under a ph of 2 and an initial 2,4-d concentration of 150 mg l-1. the csac removed 38.3% of na+, 43.49% of k+, 8.96% of mg2+, 45.14% of ca2+, 17.2% of cl-1, 39.48% of hco3-, 63.74% of so42-, and 100% of the herbicide from agricultural subsurface drainage water and also retained its usability after regenerated by acetone for five cycles. it was concluded that the 2,4-d was adsorbed on the surface of the csac through its aromatic ring interaction with the reactive functional groups of the adsorbent. the model result indicated that the pdm is the best-fitting kinetic model for the adsorption of 2,4-d by csac, followed by fdm, socrrm, psoe, pfoe, and ee. the mass balance equation based on pdm describes the dynamic behavior of the column satisfactorily. graphical abstract.
the wetland plants are very sensitive to hydrological regimes. in this study, the individual sizes of a widely distributed species (i.e., deyeuxia angustifolia) at three typical marshes with different water table depths (i.e., wet meadow (wm) marsh; seasonal inundated (si) marsh; perennial inundated (pi) marsh) were investigated in the sanjiang plain of northeast china. concurrently, three primary point pattern processes (homogeneous poisson (hp) process, homogeneous thomas (ht) process, and inhomogeneous thomas (it) process) were used to model spatial patterns in the distribution at 0-50 cm scale for this tillering-cloning species. the plant height, diameter at breast height (d.b.h), internode number, branches number, and individual aboveground biomass of d. angustifolia decreased sharply with rising water level; however, its density and coverage increased first and then decreased as water level increases. the distribution of d. angustifolia totally diverged from the complete spatial randomness (csr) model (i.e., hp process) suggesting strong aggregation at 0-50 cm scale in all marshes, and aggregated intensity enhanced with increasing water level. interestingly, the spatial distribution of d. angustifolia fits better with the nested double-cluster model (i.e., it process) at all scales in wm and si marshes, indicating that there is a series of clustered patterns under the slight flood stress. however, the spatial pattern fits well with the poisson cluster model (i.e., ht process) at all scales in pi marsh, implying the small-scale clustering disappeared with the intensification of flooding stress. our results highlight that the d. angustifolia population could adapt to flooding stress in a certain degree via individual miniaturization strategies and multi-aggregation mechanisms in the freshwater wetlands.
natural resource-rich countries transfer more sources to military expenditures due to extreme security concerns. as public revenues have declined due to the decline in oil prices, military expenditures have been cut in many countries. nevertheless, this is not valid for all countries. even in some countries, despite the decrease in oil prices and volatility, military expenditures increase. the aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between volatility in oil prices and military expenditures in gcc countries (united arab emirates, bahrain, qatar, kuwait, saudi arabia, and oman). the analysis period was determined differently for each country depending on the availability of data. uae and qatar were excluded from the analysis as the defense expenditures data of these countries could not be provided regularly. ardl model was preferred for the research. according to the bound test results, there is a cointegration relationship between the variables in all countries. besides, the long-term results showed that the volatility in oil prices in all countries, except for bahrain, positively affects military expenditures. the error correction model indicated that there is a reverse relationship between oil price volatility and military expenditures. these findings indicated that despite the volatility in oil prices, military expenditures in gcc countries are not reduced.
as a commonly used anti-diabetic drug, metformin (mef) is frequently detected in different water bodies which pose a potential threat to human health and the ecological environment. in this study, oxidative degradation of mef under ultraviolet (uv) light was studied, and its influencing factors, photolysis mechanism, and intermediates identification carried out as well. the results showed that the hydroxyl radical contributed 73% during the 6 h mef photolysis process among the reactive oxygen species (ros). in addition, triplet excited-state organic matter and singlet oxygen also played a role in the photolysis process. the reaction rates of hydroxyl radical and singlet oxygen with mef are (6.45 ± 0.4) × 109 and (5.4 ± 0.7) × 106 l·(mol s)-1, respectively. by calculating the light screening effect of environmental factors, it is found that the presence of no3- and cl- had a greater excitation effect on ros than the screening effect, and generally promoted the photolysis rates of mef from 90.3 to 193.5% and from 16.1 to 80.6% during the 6-h reaction process, respectively. for bicarbonate and fulvic acid, the light screening effects were dominant and inhibited photolysis rates by 10-52% and 13-71%, respectively. the results demonstrated that the photoreactivity of environmental factors in water is the cause of the different photodegradation rates of mef. the oxidative degradation product of mef under uv light was detected by uplc/q-tof as methylbiguanide (mbg), 2,4-diamino-1,3,5-triazine (2,4-dat), biguanide (bgn), 1,1-dimethylguanidine (1,1-dimbg), 4-amino-2-imino-1-methyl-1,2-dihydro-1, 3,5-triazine (4,2,1-aimt), and 2-amino-4-methylamino-1,3,5-triazine (2,4-amt). the result which showed that the primary sites of ∙oh attacked is consistent with that of density functional theory calculation. graphical abstract.
in this study, a novel, simple, and highly sensitive analytical procedure for the quantitative evaluation of oxygenated and nitrated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in volcanic ash samples based on dispersive solid-liquid microextraction (dslme) coupled to ultra high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (uhplc-ms/ms) was developed. diverse chemometric tools were applied to optimize dslme working conditions. thus, a linear calibration curve for all the target analytes in the concentration range from 0.01 to 100 μg g-1 (r2 > 0.994) was obtained. the limits of detection for all the compounds were between 14.6 and 56.0 pg g-1, with high reproducibility (relative standard deviation (rsd) was below 8.1% for all the analytes). additionally, recoveries ranged from 94.2 to 100%. the applicability of the method was evaluated and the feasibility of the existence of nitrated and oxygenated-pahs in volcanic ashes at ultra-trace levels was demonstrated, which reveals an unknown source of distribution of these pollutants to the environment. graphical abstract.
recently, we have defined atomic polarizability, a conceptual density functional theory (cdft)-based reactivity descriptor, through an empirical method. though the method is empirical, it is competent enough to meet the criteria of periodic descriptors and exhibit relativistic effect. since the atomic data are very accurate, we have applied them to determine molecular polarizability. molecular polarizability is an electronic parameter and has an impact on chemical-biological interactions. thus, it plays a pivotal role in explaining such interactions through structure activity relationships (sar). in the present work, we have explored the application of polarizability in the real field through investigation of chemical-biological interactions in terms of molecular polarizability. a quantitative structure-activity relationship (qsar) model is constructed to account for electronic effects owing to polarizability in ligand-substrate interactions. the study involves the prediction of various biological activities in terms of minimum block concentration, relative biological response, inhibitory growth concentration or binding affinity. superior results are presented for the predicted and observed activities which support the accuracy of the proposed polarizability-qsar model. further, the results are considered from a biological viewpoint in order to understand the mechanism of interactions. the study is performed to explore the efficacy of the computational model based on newly proposed polarizability and not to establish the finest qsar. for future studies, it is suggested that the descriptor polarizability should be contrasted with the use of other drug-like descriptors.
five 1,4-bisphenylhydrazone derivatives (1-5) were successfully synthesized and evaluated for their antioxidant and acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activities. the antioxidant activity has been carried out using dpph, abts, cuprac and superoxide radical scavenging methods. all the compounds showed a very good antioxidant activity compared to that of the standards used. compound 1 was found to be the best antioxidant agent with ic50 values lower or comparable to that of the standards. the acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity has been evaluated using a modified ellman's assay. the obtained results indicate that compound 2 is the best acetylcholinesterase inhibitor with a low ic50 value comparable to that of the galantamine. in addition, dft calculations have been performed to determine in which mechanism the synthesized hydrazones follow to scavenge free radicals. molecular docking study was performed for compound 2, and its interaction modes with the enzyme acetylcholinesterase were determined. as a result, a strong interaction between this compound and the active site of ache enzyme was revealed. finally, adme properties of the synthesized compounds were also studied and showed good drug-like properties.
novel agonists of the nuclear liver-x-receptor (lxr) are designed to treat metabolic disorders or cancer. the rationale to develop these new drugs is based on promising results with established lxr agonist like t0901317 and gw3965. lxrα and lxrβ are expressed in β-cells, and expression is increased by t0901317. the aim of the present study was to evaluate whether effects of these drugs on β-cell function are specific and reliably linked to lxr activation. t0901317 and gw3965, widely used as specific lxr agonists, show rapid, non-genomic effects on stimulus-secretion coupling of mouse pancreatic β-cells at low µm concentrations. t0901317 lowered the cytosolic ca2+ concentration, reduced or completely inhibited action potentials, and decreased insulin secretion. gw3965 exerted similar effects on insulin secretion. t0901317 affected the production of reactive oxygen species and atp. the involvement of the classical nuclear lxrs in t0901317- and gw3965-mediated effects in β-cells could be ruled out using lxrα, lxrβ and double knockout mice. our results strongly suggest that lxr agonists, that are considered to be specific for this receptor, interfere with mitochondrial metabolism and metabolism-independent processes in β-cells. thus, it is indispensable to test novel lxr agonists accompanying to ongoing clinical trials for acute and chronic effects on cell function in cellular systems and/or animal models lacking classical lxrs.
purpose: papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (ptmc) has an excellent prognosis due to its indolent features. only few studies have assessed the clinical factors that can predict lateral neck lymph node metastasis (llnm) in patients with ptmc. this study aimed to examine the clinicopathological factors associated with llnm in patients with ptmc.methods: we reviewed medical records of 3578 patients with ptmc that was ≤1 cm in diameter on final pathology at yonsei university hospital between january 2015 and december 2017. the patients were divided into two groups (metastasis group [n = 157] and no metastasis group [n = 3421]).results: the proportion of patients with multifocality, extrathyroidal extension (ete), and central node metastasis was significantly higher in metastasis group (p < 0.001, p < 0.001 and p < 0.001, respectively), and the mean tumor size was relatively larger in metastasis group than in no metastasis group (0.7 ± 0.2 vs. 0.6 ± 0.2 cm, p < 0.001). however, no statistically significant differences were observed in the tumors harboring braf mutation between the two groups (84.8% vs. 80.6%, p = 0.199). multivariate analysis indicated that the significant risk factors of llnm include ete (odds ratio [or]: 1.904, 95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.267-2.861), multifocality (or: 2.255, 95% ci: 1.544-3.293), and central node metastasis (or: 7.768, 95% ci: 4.869-12.395), but not braf mutation (or: 0.542, 95% ci: 0.337-0.874).conclusion: approximately 4.4% of patients with ptmc presented with llnm at the time of diagnosis. moreover, the significant risk factors of llnm include central node metastasis, ete, and multifocal disease but not braf mutation.
purpose: due to the nature and complexity of autism spectrum disorder (asd), which typically requires coordination among various treatments targeting different areas of need, the entire family is impacted. family quality of life (fqol) research has emerged to address the range of adaptation families experience when raising a child with asd. one factor that is likely to impact fqol relates to families' service use to support their child's needs. the goal of the present study was to examine the relations between specific domains of fqol and service usage type among families of children with asd.methods: a total of 164 caregivers of children diagnosed with asd were asked which autism services they were currently using and completed the beach center family quality of life scale and the nisonger child behaviour rating form.results: findings revealed that service usage type significantly predicted families' satisfaction with their emotional well-being, physical/material well-being, and disability-related support. specifically, families using a combination of mental health services and adl therapies reported greater satisfaction in these fqol domains.conclusion: present findings underscore that families need access to a sufficiently broad range of child services and supports in order to benefit their fqol.
this study is the first report on the separation and reusability of apounag protein, indicating excellent fluorescence response with high affinity and specificity toward unconjugated bilirubin (uc-br) molecules, from the unag-uc-br complex structure. the fluorescence properties of the unag-uc-br complex (holo-unag) are studied by addition of different metal ions to perform possible interactions with holo-unag through absorbance and emission spectra. after addition of metal ions, some changes with respect to the type of metal ions are observed in fluorescence intensity of the holo-unag. when compared to metal ions, an excellent quenching response is sighted in the presence of cu2+ ions by binding with uc-br in the unag-uc-br complex structure. obtained non-fluorescence holo-unag-cu2+ complex mixture is passed through ni-nta agarose to remove the ingredients such as cu2+, uc-br and cu2+-uc-br coordination complex from holo-unag. from the obtained experiments, it is concluded that cu2+ ion can be used as an agent for the recovery of apounag protein via binding with uc-br molecules. graphical abstract recovery and reusability of apounag fluorescence protein from the unconjugated bilirubin complex structure.
neuroblastoma (nb) is the common pediatric tumor of the sympathetic nervous system characterized by poor prognosis. owing to the challenges such as high tumor heterogeneity, multidrug resistance, minimal residual disease, etc., there is an immediate need for exploring new therapeutic strategies and effective treatments for nb. herein, in the current study, we explored the unexplored response of nb cells to the second-generation histone deacetylase inhibitor (hdaci) jnj-26481585(jnj) and the lysosomotropic agent, chloroquine (cq) alone and upon jnj/cq treatment as a plausible therapeutic. we identify that while jnj alone induced autophagy in nb cells, jnj/cq treatment decreased the viability and proliferation of nb cells in vitro by switching from autophagy to apoptosis. further we found that autophagy inhibition by cq pre-treatment led to the generation of ros and a decrease in the mitochondrial membrane potential (mmp) that subsequently caused caspase-3-mediated apoptotic cell death in nb cells. corroborating the above observations, we found that the ros scavenger n-acetylcysteine (nac) countered caspase-3 activity and the cells were rescued from apoptosis. finally, these observations establish that jnj/cq treatment resulted in cell death in nb cells by triggering the formation of ros and disruption of mmp, suggesting that modulation of jnj-induced autophagy by cq represents a promising new therapeutic approach in nb.
background: despite recent advances in immunosuppressive therapy for patients with primary nephrotic syndrome, its effectiveness and safety have not been fully studied in recent nationwide real-world clinical data in japan.methods: a 5-year cohort study, the japan nephrotic syndrome cohort study, enrolled 374 patients with primary nephrotic syndrome in 55 hospitals in japan, including 155, 148, 38, and 33 patients with minimal change disease (mcd), membranous nephropathy (mn), focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (fsgs), and other glomerulonephritides, respectively. the incidence rates of remission and relapse of proteinuria, 50% and 100% increases in serum creatinine, end-stage kidney disease (eskd), all-cause mortality, and other major adverse outcomes were compared among glomerulonephritides using the log-rank test. incidence of hospitalization for infection, the most common cause of mortality, was compared using a multivariable-adjusted cox proportional hazard model.results: immunosuppressive therapy was administered in 339 (90.6%) patients. the cumulative probabilities of complete remission within 3 years of the baseline visit was ≥ 0.75 in patients with mcd, mn, and fsgs (0.95, 0.77, and 0.79, respectively). diabetes was the most common adverse events associated with immunosuppressive therapy (incidence rate, 71.0 per 1000 person-years). all-cause mortality (15.6 per 1000 person-years), mainly infection-related mortality (47.8%), was more common than eskd (8.9 per 1000 person-years), especially in patients with mcd and mn. mcd was significantly associated with hospitalization for infection than mn.conclusions: patients with mcd and mn had a higher mortality, especially infection-related mortality, than eskd. nephrologists should pay more attention to infections in patients with primary nephrotic syndrome.
purpose: neurodegeneration of the nucleus ambiguus and the dorsal vagal motor nucleus has been implicated in cardiac parasympathetic dysfunction in multiple system atrophy (msa). the nucleus ambiguus and the dorsal vagal motor nucleus, which are located in the medulla oblongata (mo), control the autonomic-specifically, the parasympathetic-functions of the body. the aim of our study was to investigate the relationship between cardiac parasympathetic dysfunction and the anteroposterior diameter of the mo in msa by quantitatively analyzing magnetic resonance imaging (mri) outcome measures.methods: we retrospectively assessed 40 consecutive patients with probable msa and 25 age- and sex-matched controls. the anteroposterior diameter of the mo at two locations (mo diameter-a and -b) and the diameters of the midbrain and pons were measured by conventional mri. a cardiac parasympathetic function score (cp-score) and cardiac sympathetic function score (cs-score) were generated by calculating the z-scores of multiple autonomic function tests. the relationship between the scores and the measured diameters of the brainstem was also investigated.results: the cp-score and cs-score were significantly lower in the patients with msa than in the controls (cp-score: 0.61 ± 0.75 vs. - 0.38 ± 0.52, p < 0.001; cs-score: 0.91 ± 1.06 vs. - 0.57 ± 1.07, p < 0.001). also, in the patients with msa, the cp-score was significantly correlated with mo diameter-a (r = 0.40, p = 0.010), and the cs-score was significantly correlated with the diameter of the midbrain (r = 0.33, p = 0.038).conclusion: the anteroposterior diameter of the mo is a potential imaging marker of parasympathetic dysfunction in msa.
health service package is the package of services that the government is providing or is aspiring to provide to its citizens in an equitable manner. the ethiopia family health service package is part of the health extension program consisting of antenatal care, delivery service, postnatal care, immunization, and family planning. this package facilitates the utilization of maternal, neonatal and child health services and contributes to the reduction of maternal and child mortality. however, there is no data on the utilization of this package in pastoralist societies. this study aimed to assess the utilization of the family health service package and associated factors among mothers of children less than 1-year-old. from february 18-march 6, 2017 we conducted a community-based cross-sectional study with 421 mothers who gave birth in the last year in the afdem district of the somali region in ethiopia. mothers who gave birth between january 1/2016 to january 1/2017 in the district were selected by systematic random sampling. the study analysis included descriptive and bivariate statistics and multivariate logistic regression model. the overall utilization of the package was 25.1% (95% ci of 21.1-29.5%). factors associated significantly with family health service utilization were urban place of residence [(aor 95% ci) = 3.8 (1.5-9.9)], mother visited by health extension workers [(aor (95% ci) = 3.1 (1.6-6.3)] and mothers participation in health extension program activities [(aor (95% ci) = 2.8 (1.5-5.4)]. the utilization of the family health service package was low. mothers visited by health extension workers and participated in the health extension program were more likely to utilize family health services. it needs to expand services beyond urban areas and involve rural mothers in health extension program activities.
type 2 diabetes (t2d) in youth is a growing healthcare and public health concern. it is costly, and youth suffer from disabling and deadly comorbid conditions at a faster pace than adult onset. however, t2d is preventable. the population of obese youth at greatest risk for t2d is of minority race/ethnicity and socioeconomically disadvantaged background, which creates barriers to health promoting lifestyles. despite being the first line of prevention efforts for t2d, efficacious behavioral lifestyle interventions are still lacking at the community level. during the summers of 2016 and 2017, a study integrated obesity and diabetes prevention health education into teenworks summer employment program at indy urban acres in indianapolis, indiana. results were analyzed using paired sample t-tests. participants (n = 168) had a mean age of 15.8 ± 0.7 years, 61% female, 13% hispanic, 80% black. by the end of the intervention, physical activity (p = 0.000) and prevention knowledge (p = 0.000) were significantly higher. dietary intake (p = 0.204), self-efficacy (p = 0.58), food insecurity (p = 0.058) and depression screening scores (p = 0.809) were not significantly different. in light of the continuing childhood obesity epidemic and increasing prevalence of prediabetes and t2d in youth, there is a pressing need to understand and reduce barriers to obesity and diabetes prevention in high-risk populations. this study demonstrated the feasibility of integrating obesity and t2d prevention health education into a teen summer employment program.
purpose: vepoloxamer (vepo), a rheologic agent, repairs damaged cell membranes, thus inhibiting unregulated ca2+ entry into cardiomyocytes. this study examined the effects of i.v. infusion of vepo on lv function in dogs with coronary microembolization-induced heart failure (hf) (lv ejection fraction, ef ~ 30%).methods: thirty-five hf dogs were studied. study 1: 21 of 35 dogs were randomized to 2-h infusion of vepo at dose of 450 mg/kg (n = 7) or vepo at 225 mg/kg (n = 7) or normal saline (control, n = 7). hemodynamics were measured at 2 h, 24 h, 1 week, and 2 weeks after infusion. study 2: 14 hf dogs were randomized to 2-h infusions of vepo (450 mg/kg, n = 7) or normal saline (control, n = 7). each dog received 2 infusions of vepo or saline (pulsed therapy) 3 weeks apart and hemodynamics measured at 24 h, and 1, 2, and 3 weeks after each infusion. in both studies, the change between pre-infusion measures and measures at other time points (treatment effect, δ) was calculated.results: study 1: compared to pre-infusion, high dose vepo increased lvef by 11 ± 2% at 2 h, 8 ± 2% at 24 h (p < 0.05), 8 ± 2% at 1 week (p < 0.05), and 4 ± 2% at 2 weeks. lv ef also increased with low-dose vepo but not with saline. study 2: vepo but not saline significantly increased lvef by 6.0 ± 0.7% at 2 h (p < 0.05); 7.0 ± 0.7%% at 1 week (p < 0.05); 1.0 ± 0.6% at 3 weeks; 6.0 ± 1.3% at 4 weeks (p < 0.05); and 5.9 ± 1.3% at 6 weeks (p < 0.05).conclusions: intravenous vepo improves lv function for at least 1 week after infusion. the benefits can be extended with pulsed vepo therapy. the results support development of vepo for treating patients with acute on chronic hf.
purpose: to compare intraosseous access with peripheral venous access on adults out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (ohca) patients' clinical outcomes.methods: a national retrospective multicentre study was conducted based on the french national cardiac arrest registry. comparison of patients (intraosseous vs. peripheral venous access) was conducted before and after a matching using a propensity score. the propensity score included confounding factors: age, time between the call (t0) to epinephrine (to take account of how quickly vascular access was achieved), the aetiology of ohca, the shock and the patient initial rhythm at mmt arrival.results: a total of 1576 patients received intraosseous access, and 27,280 received peripheral intravenous access. before matching, ohca patients with intraosseous access were less likely to survive at all stages (return of spontaneous circulation (rosc), 0-day survival and 30-day survival). no significant difference in neurological outcome was observed. after propensity score matching, no significant differences in 30-day survival rates (or = 0.763 [0.473;1.231]) and neurological outcome (or = 1.296 [0.973;1.726]) were observed. however, intraosseous patients still showed lower likelihood of short-term survival (rosc and 0-day survival) even after propensity score matching was implemented.conclusion: the populations we investigated were similar to those of other studies suggesting that intraosseous access is associated with reduced survival and poorer neurological outcome. our findings suggest that intraosseous access is a comparably effective alternative to peripheral intravenous access for treating ohca patients on matched populations.
spatial learning is an important cognitive function found across a multitude of species. natural selection can enhance specific cognitive abilities depending on species ecology but, under certain conditions, spatial learning is also known to vary between sexes according to reproductive status. despite abundant studies on spatial learning across animal taxa, those focusing on sexually dimorphic spatial learning have been largely limited to rodents. here, we found that spatial cognition varies between the sexes in an intertidal goby, and this difference fluctuates across seasons. males and females demonstrated similar cognitive abilities when solving a simple maze during all seasons except spring, when males were significantly less successful than females. spring marks the beginning of the breeding season for this species, when females move between nests to choose a suitable mate, while males guard their nest and forego foraging excursions. we suggest that the reduction in male cognitive ability reduces metabolic costs at a time of reduced need. this study presents the first evidence for sexually dimorphic spatial learning in fish driven by differences in reproductive behaviour as dictated by the mating system.
introduction: primary sjögren's syndrome (pss) has been related to a higher risk of comorbidities, but studies examining comorbidities among patients with and without extraglandular manifestations are limited. the objectives of this study were to assess the prevalence of comorbidities in chinese pss patients and to determine the relationship between comorbidities and extraglandular manifestations.method: this cross-sectional study was based on the multicenter pss registry established by the chinese rheumatism data center. patients fulfilling the 2002 american-european criteria or the 2016 classification criteria for pss were enrolled from may 2016 to december 2018. demographic data, disease characteristics, comorbidities (cardiovascular disease, thyroid disorder, malignancy, and fragility fracture), and extraglandular manifestations were collected. multivariate analyses were used to assess the relationships between comorbidities and extraglandular manifestations.results: a total of 4087 pss patients were included (95.7% female and mean age of 51.2 ± 13.1 years). the baseline prevalence of comorbidities was 3.8% for cardiovascular diseases, 12.1% for thyroid disorders, 1.8% for malignancies, and 1.7% for fragility fractures. the presence of extraglandular manifestations was associated with more comorbidities. patients with more than one extraglandular manifestation had a higher prevalence of cardiovascular disease (adjusted odds ratio [aor] 2.004, 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.221-3.288), thyroid disorder (aor 1.380, 95% ci 1.022-1.863), and fragility fracture (aor 2.684, 95% ci 1.505-4.786) after adjustment for age, sex, disease duration, and the significant variables in the univariate analysis.conclusions: the presence of extraglandular manifestations in pss was associated with an increased comorbidity burden, especially cardiovascular disease, thyroid disorder, and fragility fracture.key points• this is the first study assessing the association between extraglandular manifestations and comorbidity burden based on the largest pss registry in china.• patients with multiple extraglandular manifestations tend to have increased comorbid cardiovascular disease, thyroid disorder, and fragility fracture.
objective: the ikbke has been proven to be associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) in a genome-wide association study (gwas) conducted by our group. the objective of the recent study is to investigate the contribution of ikbke functional variants (rs2297550) to sle.methods: we detected the regulatory effect of rs2297550 on ikbke expression by expression quantitative trait loci (eqtl) study. then, we investigated the differences of ikbke mrna expression levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) between 135 sle patients and 130 healthy controls using quantitative real-time pcr (qrt-pcr). we further analyzed the association of sle clinical characteristics with ikbke mrna expression and rs2297550 polymorphisms.results: the results of eqtl indicated the genotype "gg" of single-nucleotide polymorphism (snp) rs2297550 was associated with lower expression levels of ikbke (p = 0.022) in normal controls. compared with the healthy control group, the expression levels of ikbke mrna in patients with sle were significantly decreased (p = 2.32 × 10-12). in clinical characteristics, we found that ikbke mrna expression levels were associated with vasculitis (p = 0.015) and increased c-reactive protein (crp) (p = 0.021) in sle patients.conclusion: in this study, we not only detected that the variant rs2297550 of ikbke may be closely related to sle, but also proposed functional hypotheses for the association signals.key points• the rs2297550 is located in a region with transcriptional regulatory function and may regulate the expression of ikbke via these regulatory elements.• the genotype "gg" of snp rs2297550 was associated with lower expression levels of ikbke.• the expression of ikbke mrna was decreased in sle patients compared with healthy controls.• ikbke contributes to the clinical characteristics of sle.
the supracerebellar infratentorial approach (scita) is a standard approach used in a neurosurgical practice. it carries some risk of associated complications including cerebellar venous infarction with possible serious sequelae. the objective of this study is to address the incidence of cerebellar venous infarction in scita. a search through the currently available literature was performed in september 2019 from the year 2000 until september 2019 dealing with 'supracerebellar infratentorial approach'. out of the 578 patients found in thirteen case series, two venous infarctions were present; the remaining four patients were published as case reports. by analysing the case series, we calculated the risk of such a complication to be 0.345% (95% ci [0.061%, 1.248%]). case reports were not included. the real risk is estimated to be higher. the risk of cerebellar venous infarction is an unpredictable, infrequent but real complication with potentially dreadful sequelae. each neurosurgeon using this approach should be aware of this event when employing this approach. the avoidance of cerebellar venous infarction can be lowered by leaving as many bridging veins intact as possible.
purpose: chondrocyte -based tissue engineering has been a promising option for the treatment of cartilage lesions. in previous literature, td198946 has been shown to promote chondrogenic differentiation which could prove useful in cartilage regeneration therapies. our study aimed to investigate the effects of td198946 in generating engineered cartilage using dedifferentiated chondrocyte-seeded collagen scaffolds treated with td198946.methods: articular chondrocytes were isolated from mini pig knees and expanded in 2-dimensional cell culture and subsequently used in the experiments. 3-d pellets were then cultured for two weeks. cells were also cultured in a type i collagen scaffolds for four weeks. specimens were cultured with td198946, bmp-2, or both in combination. outcomes were determined by gene expression levels of runx1, sox9, acan, col1a1, col2a1 and col10a1, the glycosaminoglycan content, and characteristics of histology and immunohistochemistry. furthermore, the maturity of the engineered cartilage cultured for two weeks was evaluated through subcutaneous implantation in nude mice for four weeks.results: addition of td198946 demonstrated the upregulation of gene expression level except for acan, type ii collagen and glycosaminoglycan synthesis in both pellet and 3d scaffold cultures. td198946 and bmp-2 combination cultures showed higher chondrogenic differentiation than td198946 or bmp-2 alone. the engineered cartilage maintained its extracellular matrices for four weeks post implantation. in contrast, engineered cartilage treated with either td198946 or bmp-2 alone was mostly absorbed.conclusions: our results indicate that td198946 could improve quality of engineered cartilage by redifferentiation of dedifferentiated chondrocytes pre-implantation and promoting collagen and glycosaminoglycan synthesis.
astrocytes mediate a remarkable variety of cellular functions, including gliotransmitter release. under pathological conditions, high concentrations of the purinergic receptor agonist adenosine triphosphate (atp) are released into the extracellular space leading to the activation of the purinergic p2x7 receptor, which in turn can initiate signaling cascades. it is well-established that reactive oxygen species (ros) increase in macrophages and microglia following p2x7 receptor activation. however, direct evidence that activation of p2x7 receptor leads to ros production in astrocytes is lacking to date. while it is known that p2x7r activation induces cytokine production, the mechanism involved in this process is unclear. in the present study, we demonstrated that p2x7 receptor activation induced ros production in spinal astrocytes in a concentration-dependent manner. we also found that p2x7r-mediated ros production is at least partially through nadph oxidase. in addition, our elisa data show that p2x7r-induced il-6 release was dependent on nadph oxidase-mediated production of ros. collectively, these results reveal that activation of the p2x7 receptor on spinal astrocytes increases ros production through nadph oxidase, subsequently leading to il-6 release. our results reveal a role of ros in the p2x7 signaling pathway in mouse spinal cord astrocytes and may indicate a potential mechanism for the astrocytic p2x7 receptor in chronic pain.
gay men experience various stressors, including gay-specific stressors such as discrimination and internalized homonegativity as well as general stressors such as occupational and financial strain. while a robust literature has examined how gay-specific stressors are associated with negative mental health outcomes among gay men, less attention has been paid to the association between general stress and gay men's psychological functioning or to how different types of stressors may interact to affect functioning. the current study sought to address this gap by examining the unique and combined associations between gay-specific external stress (discrimination), gay-specific internal stress (rejection sensitivity, internalized homonegativity, sexual identity concealment), and general stressors (e.g., academic difficulties) and negative affect and alcohol use over time. a total of 147 self-identified gay men living in the greater new york city area participated in a baseline assessment and a 7-week diary study. univariate and multivariate results revealed that gay-specific external stress, gay-specific internal stress, and general stress were each positively and uniquely associated with higher mean levels of and greater fluctuations in negative affect over time, and general stress was positively associated with greater fluctuations in alcohol use over time. multiplicative analyses indicated that individuals reporting high levels of stress in multiple domains experienced particularly high mean levels of negative affect. these findings highlight the unique contribution of general stress to gay men's functioning over time and underscore the importance of considering multiple forms of stress (i.e., gay-specific and general stress) and their interactions to better understand gay men's psychological functioning.
there are several indexes of intraoperative nociception during surgery under general anesthesia. although a higher degree of surgical invasiveness increases intraoperative nociception, an association between the index of intraoperative nociception and severity of surgical invasiveness has not been reported. we hypothesized that there is associations between averaged values of nociceptive response (nr) throughout surgery (mean nr), as the index of intraoperative nociception, and surgical severity codes in the surgical outcome risk tool (sort) or procedure risk codes in the surgical mortality probability model (s-mpm). the primary outcome was the association between mean nr and severity scores of surgical procedure. hence, a single institutional retrospective cohort study was performed in consecutive patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery under general anesthesia from june 2018 to may 2019. there were significant increases in the three categories of procedure risk in the s-mpm corresponding to the increase in mean nr values in 5090 patients. in the sort, the highest intensity in the four categories of surgical severity also significantly correlated with the increase in mean nr values. increasing intensity of intraoperative nociception is likely associated with higher severity codes of surgical invasiveness in prediction models for postoperative morbidity and mortality.
background: little is known about patients discharged to hospice following hospitalization for complications of cirrhosis.aim: we sought to understand the current pattern of hospice utilization in patients with cirrhosis by evaluating the north american consortium for the study of end-stage liver disease (nacseld) cohort.methods: patients with cirrhosis from 14 tertiary-care hepatology centers across north america non-electively hospitalized and prospectively enrolled were evaluated. exclusion criteria included hiv infection, transplantation or non-hepatic malignancy. random computer-based propensity score matching was undertaken in a 1:2 ratio based on admission meld score ± 3 points.results: totally, 2718 patients were enrolled, 5% (n = 132) were discharged to hospice, 6% (n = 171) died, and the rest were discharged alive. patients discharged to hospice were older (60 vs. 57 years, p = 0.04), less likely to have had sbp (13% vs. 28%, p = 0.002) and be listed for liver transplantation (11% vs. 26%, p = 0.0007). features, on multivariable modeling, associated with increased probability of discharge to hospice as opposed to being discharged alive: grade-3-4 hepatic encephalopathy, a higher child-turcotte-pugh (ctp) score, and a higher discharge serum creatinine; however, a higher serum sodium, being listed for transplant and being prescribed rifaximin or a statin were protective from hospice discharge.conclusion: patients with more advanced liver disease, hepatic encephalopathy, renal dysfunction, and those not candidates for liver transplantation were more likely to be discharged to hospice. however, in this sick multinational cohort of cirrhotic inpatients, it seems that hospice is markedly underutilized (5%) since 25% of patients not discharged to hospice died within 6 months.
background: non-celiac wheat sensitivity (ncws) most frequently presents clinically with irritable bowel syndrome (ibs)-like symptoms, although many extra-intestinal manifestations have also been attributed to it. no studies to date have evaluated the presence and frequency of gynecological symptoms in ncws.aim: to evaluate the frequency of gynecological disorders in patients with ncws.patients and methods: sixty-eight women with ncws were included in the study. a questionnaire investigating gynecological symptoms and recurrent cystitis was administered, and patients reporting symptoms were then examined by specialists. three control groups were selected: 52 patients with ibs not related to ncws, 56 patients with celiac disease (cd), and 71 healthy controls.results: 59% of the patients with ncws showed gynecological symptoms, a higher frequency than in healthy controls (p = 0.04), ibs controls (p = 0.01) and cd controls (p = 0.02). menstrual cycle alterations were more frequent in patients with ncws than in healthy controls (26.5% vs 11.3%; p = 0.03); the patients with ncws suffered from recurrent vaginitis (16%) and dyspareunia (6%) significantly more frequently than healthy controls. twenty-nine percent of patients with ncws reported recurrent cystitis, a finding higher than in the control groups (vs healthy p = 0.0001, vs ibs p = 0.001, vs cd controls p = 0.04). microbiological examinations were negative in most of the patients with ncws and recurrent vaginitis or cystitis. during the 1-year follow-up, 46% of patients with menstrual disorders and 36% with recurrent vaginitis reported resolution of symptoms on a wheat-free diet.conclusions: patients with ncws showed a significantly higher frequency of gynecological symptoms and recurrent cystitis than patients with ibs.
a new portable molecular imprinting polymer (mip)-sers nanoprobe is fabricated by a convenient electrochemical method. single-layered mos2 is electrochemically reduced on a screen-printed electrode as the scaffold. functional monomers o-phenylenediamine (opd), template theophylline (thp), and sers-active au nanoparticles (aunps) are then one-step electropolymerized on the scaffold. the morphology of the nanoprobe is found to be a three-dimensional and porous structure. the abundant aunps with the size of 45~50 nm are trapped within the growing mip instead of being confined to the surface. the thickness of mip film is calculated to 25.1 nm. the nanoprobe displays a strong sers effect for thp using 532 nm as excitation wavelength with a detection limit (lod) of 0.01 nm. the sers peak intensity at 1487 cm-1 increases linearly with the concentration of thp in the range 0.1 nm to 0.1 mm. after the template is removed, the imprint-removed nanoprobe is generated for selective binding of thp. the re-binding kinetics study implies the portable mip-sers nanoprobe can reach the adsorption equilibrium within 8 min. this nanoprobe exhibits low sers interference for structural analogues theobromine (thb) and caffeine (caf). the nanoprobe was employed to thp determination in tea drink samples, with recoveries ranging from 99.0 to 102.0% and relative standard deviations of < 5.0%. graphical abstractschematic representation of a portable molecular imprinting sers nanoprobe used for selective and sensitive theophylline recognition. the nanoprobe is fabricated by one-step electropolymerized o-phenylenediamine (opd), theophylline, and electroreduced au nanoparticles (aunps) on reduced mos2 (rmos2) modified screen-printed electrode (spe).
purpose: this cross-sectional study aimed at comparing the quality of life (qol), the prevalence of psychiatric diagnosis and pharmacological treatment in 104 candidates to bariatric surgery according to the degree of obesity (class 2 vs. class ≥ 3 obesity).methods: all surgical candidates underwent a detailed psychiatric interview based on dsm-5 criteria, including sociodemographic, clinical, psychological and psychiatric data. participants completed the binge eating scale (bes) and the 12-item short form health survey (sf-12).results: overall, bariatric candidates reported a significant impairment in the physical (pcs 38.8 [95% ci 36.2-41.5]) and mental (mcs 42.2 [95% ci 40.4-43.9]) components of qol compared to population norms (p < 0.001 for both). subjects with class 2 obesity scored significantly lower in the mcs compared to those with class 3 (38.7 (8.1) vs. 43.6 (8.4), p = 0.008). no other statistically significant differences were found between the two groups in terms of sociodemographic and clinical variables.conclusion: these data support the usefulness of qol assessment in bariatric candidates as a sensible screening parameter, especially in patients with lower bmi, in whom mcs could identify the need for early psychosocial intervention.level of evidence: level iii, case-control analytic study.
introduction: the most commonly used tool for implant positioning are conventional instruments (ci) followed by computer-assisted surgery (cas). a number of studies have investigated the cutting error of the tibial component when cas is used, but most of them were focused on the cutting angles. the accuracy of cas to determine the depth of the cut has not received much attention, even though implications are similar or worse, than with an angle mismatch.materials and methods: this was an ethics board approved, prospective study of 23 consecutive varus tkas by a single surgeon. implant positioning was performed using cas; however, the depth of the tibial cut was determined with both cas and ci. targeted alignment was the mechanical axis and 3° of posterior slope. the planned and the achieved cut, as determined by cas needed to match. the achieved cut was then measured using a caliper and compared to the depth of the cut as per cas. medial and lateral cuts were analyzed separately. analysis of variance and bland-altman plots were used for the comparison.results: mean medial navigated cut was 6.3 (± 2.2) mm, mean measured medial cut was 6.6 (± 2.3) mm. mean lateral navigated cut was 8.9 (± 1.8) mm, mean measured lateral cut was 8.8 (± 1.5) mm. there was a statistical significance for both the medial (p < 0.001) and the lateral (p = 0.004) navigated and measured cuts.conclusions: the results of this study suggest that the tibial cut depth, measured by the navigation, does not match the actual bony cuts performed, even if a perfect cut was achieved in both sagittal and coronal plane. surgeons should be aware of the measurement error in the navigation system and potentially add an additional step for verifying the achieved depth of the cut.
in this study, we use the molecular orbital energy approximation (moea) and the energy difference approximation (eda) to build linear correlation models for the redox potentials of 53 organic compounds in aqueous solutions. the molecules evaluated include nitroxides, phenols, and amines. both the moea and eda methods yield similar correlation models, however, the moea method is less computationally expensive. correlation coefficients (r2) below 0.3 and mean absolute errors above 0.25 v were found for correlation models built without solvent effects. when explicit water molecules and a continuum solvent model are added to the calculations, correlation coefficients close to 0.8 are reached, and mean absolute errors below 0.18 v are obtained. the incorporation of solvent effects is necessary for good correlation models, particularly for redox processes of charged molecules in aqueous solutions. a comparison of the correlation models from different methodologies is provided. graphical abstract.
contemporary neurocognitive models implicate alpha oscillations as a top-down mechanism of cortical inhibition, instrumental in the suppression of information that fails to reach conscious visual awareness. this suggests that alpha-band activity may play a key role in the phenomenon of inattentional blindness, however this has not yet been empirically examined. the current study employed transcranial alternating current stimulation (tacs) over occipital cortex at alpha, theta, and sham frequencies within an inattentional blindness task to delineate whether an exogenous manipulation of alpha oscillations has a modulatory effect on visual awareness of the unexpected stimulus. results revealed that compared to theta and sham, those exposed to alpha tacs were more likely to be inattentionally blind to the unexpected stimulus. findings extend current theoretical views of alpha by suggesting inattentional blindness may be explained as a suppression of irrelevant information via alpha-band.
the formation of c70o from c70o3 monomolozonide is a three-step process with the isomer dependent last step leading either to c,c-c70o epoxide or d,d-c70o oxidoannulene. the process involves the open intermediate (first o-o then cc-cc/cd-cd bonds broken), oxidoannulene-like structure intermediate (new cc-o/cd-o bond formed) and finally the oxide product. on the formation of c,c-c70o isomer, the final release of o2 is followed by the restoration of cc-cc bond, which stabilizes the product. neither cd-cd bond is restored nor the total energy essentially lowered upon d,d-c70o formation. at all steps of the studied process, the four cc bonds adjacent to cc-cc or cd-cd bond, respectively, play a crucial role donating or withdrawing the necessary electron density. c70(o)o2 products, with o2 bridging one of the bonds adjacent to the parent cc-cc/cd-cd one, may compete with the oxide products. the oo bond in such structures is weak as suggested by its low electron population. for both c,c-c70o3 and d,d-c70o3, the shape of the potential energy surfaces (0 k) and the related, reported earlier, room temperature-free energy surfaces differ. graphical abstract.
the recently adopted terminology of "noninvasive follicular thyroid neoplasm with papillary-like nuclear features" (niftp) reflects the indolent behavior of these tumors. in contrast to conventional papillary thyroid carcinomas, niftp can be managed conservatively. the purpose of this study was to investigate changes in surgical and pathologic practice patterns at our institution since the introduction of the niftp diagnosis in 2016. a retrospective analysis of all thyroid specimens received in our laboratory between january 2015 and april 2017 was performed. the final cohort consisted of 1508 thyroidectomy specimens from 1508 patients (1153 (76.5%) women and 355 (23.5%) men), of which 1011 (67%) were total thyroidectomies and 497 (33%) were partial thyroidectomies. there were 558 (69.2%) total thyroidectomies and 248 (30.8%) partial thyroidectomies performed prior to introduction of the niftp diagnosis and 453 (64.5%) and 249 (35.5%) total and partial thyroidectomies, respectively, after the change in nomenclature. within a year following the initial use of this diagnosis, 67 niftp cases were identified (9.5% of all thyroidectomies), whereas compared with the year preceding it, malignant diagnoses decreased from 54.5 (439) to 44.6% (313), and the benign category remained unchanged from 44.5 (367) to 45.9% (322). for the entirely submitted 67 niftp cases, the mean number of blocks submitted was 14.7 (0.98 blocks/g); for malignant lesions 17.7 (0.92 blocks/g); and for benign lesions 16.6 (0.75 blocks/g). the results of our study suggest that niftp are encountered in almost 10% of thyroidectomies at our institution with expected shifts in cytology and surgical pathology diagnoses as a result of the change in nomenclature. during this time period, significant shifts towards less aggressive surgical management were not observed. all 67 niftp nodules were submitted entirely with no significant difference in the number of cassettes submitted for niftp nodules as compared with follicular variant papillary thyroid carcinoma (ptc), classic variant ptc, or follicular adenoma.
zinc l-carnosine (znc) is the chelate form of zinc and l-carnosine and is one of the zinc supplements available in the market. this study aims to determine the protective effects of znc against l-buthionine sulfoximine (bso)-induced oxidative stress in ccd-18co human normal colon fibroblast cell line. ccd-18co cells were pretreated with znc (0-100 μm) for 24 h before the induction of oxidative stress by bso (1 mm) for another 24 h. results from this present study demonstrated that znc up to the concentration of 100 μm was not cytotoxic to ccd-18co cells. induction with bso significantly increased the intracellular reactive oxygen species (ros) levels and reduced the intracellular glutathione (gsh) levels in ccd-18co cells. pretreatment with znc was able to attenuate the increment in intracellular ros level in ccd-18co cells significantly in a concentration-dependent manner. however, znc did not have any effects on intracellular gsh levels and nrf2 activation. mechanistically, pretreatment with znc was able to upregulate the expression of metallothionein (mt) and superoxide dismutase 1 (sod1) in ccd-18co cells. results from dual-luciferase reporter gene assay reported that znc was able to increase the mre-mediated relative luciferase activities in a concentration-dependent manner, suggesting that the induction of mt expression by znc was due to the activation of mtf-1 signaling pathway. taken together, our current findings suggest that znc can protect ccd-18co cells from bso-induced oxidative stress via the induction of mt and sod1 expression.
the deterioration of water quality of river ganga is a huge concern for govt. of india. apart from various pollution sources, the religious and ritualistic activities also have a good share in deteriorating ganga water quality. thus, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the changes in physico-chemical properties, microbial diversity and role of bacteriophages in controlling bacterial population of ganga water during mass ritualistic bathing on the occasion of maha-kumbh in 2013. the bod, cod, hardness, tds and level of various ions significantly increased, while do decreased in ganga water during maha-kumbh. ganga water was more affluent in trace elements than yamuna and their levels further increased during maha-kumbh, which was correlated with decreased level of trace elements in the sediment. the bacterial diversity and evenness were increased and correlated with the number of devotees taking a dip at various events. despite enormous increase in bacterial diversity during mass ritualistic bathing, the core bacterial species found in pre-kumbh ganga water were present in all the samples taken during kumbh and post-kumbh. in addition, the alteration in bacterial population during mass bathing was well under 2 log units which can be considered negligible. the study of bacteriophages at different bathing events revealed that ganga was richer with the presence of bacteriophages in comparison with yamuna against seven common bacteria found during the maha-kumbh. these bacteriophages have played a role in controlling bacterial growth and thus preventing putrefaction of ganga water. further, the abundance of trace elements in ganga water might also be a reason for suppression of bacterial growth. thus, the current study showed that ganga has characteristic water quality in terms of physico-chemical property and microbial diversity that might have a role in the reported self-cleansing property of ganga; however, the increased pollution load has surpassed its self-cleansing properties. since water has been celebrated in all cultures, the outcome of the current study will not only be useful for the policy maker of cleaning and conservation of ganga but also for restoration of other polluted rivers all over the world.
endometriosis is one of the most common medical conditions affecting the women. the study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery (ras) versus conventional laparoscopic surgery (lps) in the treatment of endometriosis. pubmed, embase, cochrane and cinahl databases were searched from january 1995 to march 2019. according to meta-analysis criteria, five comparative studies were selected. a total of 1527 patients were identified. in the meta-analysis, there were no significant differences in blood loss, complication, and hospital stay between ras and lps surgeries in the treatment of patients with endometriosis. however, ras surgery required a higher weighted mean operating time than lps surgery, 0.54 (95% confidence interval; 0.37 to 0.70; p < 0.00001) min. this meta-analysis confirmed that the robotic surgery is safe and feasible in patients affected by endometriosis. we could suggest that ras is a valid option and might be considered an alternative to lps especially in advanced cases.
early and prompt diagnosis of pyelonephritis is of great importance in children. the aim of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of urinary carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (ca19-9) levels for predicting acute pyelonephritis (apn) in children with urinary tract infection (uti). patients were allocated into two groups of apn and acute cystitis according to their diagnosis. urine samples of all patients were collected. also, complete history was taken, and physical examination, kidney and bladder ultrasonography, 99mtc-dimercaptosuccinic acid renal cortical scintigraphy, and urine analysis and culture were performed. urinary ca19-9 was measured by an electrochemiluminescence enzyme immunometric kit. in addition, ca19-9 levels were measured in the apn group 2 weeks and 3 months later. a total of 100 children were included in this study (mean age 46 ± 31 months, 16 males and 84 females). ca19-9 levels were significantly greater in the apn group than acute cystitis group (510 ± 328 vs. 18.7 ± 18.6 u/ml, p < 0.001). during follow-up periods of the apn group, ca19-9 levels decreased to 180 ± 124 u/ml after 2 weeks (p < 0.001) and 30 ± 23 u/ml after 3 months (p < 0.001). urinary ca-19-9 had 95.3% sensitivity and 80% specificity for the diagnosis of apn. the area under the curve value of ca19-9 was 0.904 (95% ci 0.831-0.977).conclusion: urinary ca19-9 level can be used as a reliable biomarker for early detection of apn prior to urine culture confirmation in children with uti.what is known:• early and prompt diagnosis of pyelonephritis is necessary in children to prevent renal damage.• acute pyelonephritis can present with vague and nonspecific symptoms in infants and children.what is new:• urinary carbohydrate antigen 19-9 is a reliable biomarker for early detection of acute pyelonephritis prior to urine culture confirmation.• urinary carbohydrate antigen 19-9 has 95.3% sensitivity and 80% specificity for diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis.
anthropometric indices (ai) have been known to be associated with age at menarche (aam). the aim of this longitudinal study was to evaluate the changes in ai and its association with aam in a community-based population in iran. from among 10,192 women, we included 6818, aged ≥ 10 years, who were post-menarche at the time of entering the study and their aam ranged between 8 and 18 years. study subjects were divided into groups by tertiles birth cohort (bc) (born ≤ 1939, 1940-1969, and ≥ 1970) and aam (≤ 11, 12-15, and ≥ 16 years). generalized estimating equation analysis was performed to evaluate the association between changes of ai in different bcs with aam groups. overall mean of aam was 13.5 ± 1.4 years. mean body mass index (bmi) was significantly increased over time more in those with early aam (≤ 11 years) compared to those with aam ≥ 16 years; changes in mean bmi of 1.24 kg/m2 (95% ci 0.32, 2.15), 2.61 kg/m2 (95% ci 1.90, 3.33), and 3.99 kg/m2 (95% ci 2.46, 5.51) in bc ≥ 1970, bc (1940-1969), and, bc ≤ 1939, respectively.conclusion: our findings showed an inverse association of aam with mean bmi, waist to height ratio, and waist circumference, an association weaker in younger women compared to other age groups.what is known:• limited data are available on the association of menarcheal age with anthropometric indices.• previous studies reported conflicting and inclusive results of this association.what is new:• our results can provide beneficial information on the association of menarcheal age with anthropometric indices based on different age groups.• this long follow-up study shows an association of menarcheal age with anthropometric indices which are stronger in older women except for height.
background: a worrying increase of gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) and barrett esophagus has been reported after sleeve gastrectomy (sg). recent reports on combined fundoplication and sg seem to accomplish initial favorable results. however, no study included manometry or ph monitoring to evaluate the impact of fundoplication in sg on esophageal physiology.method: in this study, 32 consecutive bariatric patients with gerd and/or esophagitis had high-resolution impedance manometry (hrim) and combined 24-h ph and multichannel intraluminal impedance (mii-ph) before and after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy associated to anterior fundoplication (d-sleeve). the following parameters were calculated at hrim: lower esophageal sphincter pressure and relaxation, peristalsis, and mean total bolus transit time. the acid and non-acid ger episodes were assessed by mii-ph, symptom index association (si), and symptom-association probability (sap) were also analyzed.results: at a median follow-up of 14 months, hrim showed an increased les function, and mii-ph showed an excellent control of both acid exposure of the esophagus and number of reflux events. bariatric outcomes (bmi and ewl%) were also comparable to regular sg (p = ns).conclusion: d-sleeve is an effective restrictive procedure, which recreates a functional les pressure able to control and/or prevent mild gerd at 1-year follow-up.
introduction: pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) is a very aggressive cancer. there are various sub-cellular events (both genetic and epigenetic) that get dysregulated leading to tumorigenesis. methylation in promoters of tumor suppressor genes is one of these epigenetic phenomena contributing to the pathogenesis of cancer. genes analyzed for promoter methylation status in this study namely sparc (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine, uchl1 (ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase l1), nptx2 (neuronal pentraxin 2), penk (proenkephalin) had been studied in pancreatic cancer, but there is a need to check methylation in these genes as circulatory non-invasive markers. this study analyzed the absolute quantification of methylation levels of sparc, uchl1, penk, and nptx2 genes promoters in pdac patients as well as in chronic pancreatitis (cp) patients and healthy subjects (hc) and evaluated its clinical significance in pdac.materials and methods: the study included 65 pdac patients, 25 cp patients, and 25 healthy controls. dna was extracted from their plasma samples and subsequently given bisulfite treatment. absolute quantization of methylated and unmethylated copies of gene promoters of all the four genes was performed using real-time pcr (sybr green) by the standard curve method. methylation levels were expressed as methylation index (mi) for each gene in each patient. mi was calculated from absolute copy numbers as follows: mi-methylated copy number/methylated copy number + unmethylated copy number). these indices were used to compare gene methylation levels within different groups and to correlate with clinicopathological features and survival of pancreatic cancer patients. an appropriate statistical analysis was applied.results: methylation indices for all the four genes in pdac cases were found to be significantly higher as compared to that in healthy individuals. sparc mi values were found to differentiate early-stage pdac patients from cp patients. pdac patients with the metastasized disease and stage iv disease were found to have high mi for the sparc gene as well as for the nptx2 gene, while a higher uchl1 methylation index was found to correlate with an advanced stage of the disease. higher mi values for sparc and nptx2 genes were found to associate with poor survival in patients with pdac.conclusion: methylation load in the form of mi for each of the four genes assessed in plasma may emerge as a non-invasive biomarker to differentiate pancreatic cancer from healthy individuals. but only sparc and nptx2 hypermethylation were able to distinguish pancreatic cancer from chronic pancreatitis. association of aberrant methylation in sparc and nptx2 gene with metastasis and poor survival of patients suggest the role of methylation in these genes as prognostic markers.
purpose: to identify the pathogenic plcz1 mutation involved in male infertility and fertilization failure.methods: all coding regions of plcz1 were sequenced by sanger sequencing. the expression and localization of plcz1 in sperm was determined by western blotting and immunofluorescence. to promote the fertilization rate, the infertile man with plcz1 mutation was treated with intracytoplasmic sperm injection (icsi) accompanied by assisted oocyte activation (aoa) in the following cycle.result: we identified a novel homozygous plcz1 nonsense mutation, c.588c>a (p.cys196ter) in an infertile man from a consanguineous family. no plcz1 protein was detected by western blotting and immunofluorescence in ejaculated sperm from the patient. the treatment of icsi + aoa avoided fertilization failure but did not result in pregnancy in the following cycle.conclusion: our study confirmed the essential role of plcz1 in fertilization and male fertility, which indicated the potential prognostic value of testing for plcz1 mutations in primary infertile men with sperm-derived fertilization failure.
groundwater resources in arid and semi-arid regions are the most and sometimes the only water resource used for agricultural, industrial, and urban water supply. irregular and immense application of nitrogen fertilizers in the lands under cultivation and nitrate leakage from livestock farming have affected the groundwater quality. in such areas, nitrate is one of the main pollutants in the groundwater. in this study, the temporal and spatial trend of nitrate contamination in 31 wells in fasarud plain, southern iran, from april 2017 to march 2018 were assessed. to survey the geochemical quality of the plain, a geographic information system to expand geographic location maps and spatial distribution maps of nitrate concentration and nitrate pollution index (npi) was applied. nitrate concentrations ranged between 2.43 and 96 mg l-1. results indicated that nitrate temporal trend was increased significantly in most of the wells, and the spatial trend of area percentage of nitrate class 3 (not permissible limit of more than 50 mg l-1) was positive. the greatest quantities of this variable in groundwater samples detected in northern, western, and eastern areas of the plain have a direct relation with the fertilization of agricultural lands. generally, by ending the irrigation season, nitrate concentration and npi reduced temporally in the samples and the percentage area of nitrate class 3 decreased gradually, again beginning the agricultural season, the npi, nitrate concentration, and percentage area of nitrate class 3 began to increase. overall, the change of nitrate concentration and distribution of agricultural regions have illustrated that nitrate originated from nitrogenous inorganic fertilizers applied within irrigation periods.
background metformin use is associated with reduced cancer risk in epidemiological studies and has preclinical anti-cancer activity in ovarian cancer models. the primary objective of this phase i study was to determine the recommended phase ii dose (rp2d) of metformin in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel in patients with ovarian cancer. secondary objectives were to describe safety and pharmacokinetics. methods in this single-center trial the rp2d of metformin in combination with carboplatin area under the concentration-time curve (auc) 6 and paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 every 3 weeks (q3w) in patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer was determined using a 3 + 3 escalation rule at three fixed dose levels: 500 mg three times daily (tds), 850 mg tds and 1000 mg tds. metformin was commenced on day 3 of cycle 1 and continued until 3 weeks after the last chemotherapy administration. the rp2d was defined as the dose level at which 0 of 3 or ≤ 1 of 6 evaluable subjects experienced a metformin-related dose-limiting toxicity (dlt). safety was assessed according to ctcae v4.0. plasma and serum samples for pharmacokinetic (pk) analyses were collected during treatment cycles 1 and 2. results fifteen patients with epithelial ovarian cancer and an indication for neo-adjuvant (n = 5) or palliative (n = 10) treatment were included. no dlts were observed. three patients discontinued study treatment during cycle 1 for other reasons than dlt. six patients were treated at the rp2d of metformin 1000 mg tds. the most frequent low-grade toxicities were anemia, hypomagnesemia and diarrhea. grade 3 adverse events (aes) occurred in ten patients, most common were leucopenia (n = 4), thrombocytopenia (n = 3) and increased ggt (n = 3). there were no grade 4 aes. metformin increased the platinum (pt) auc (δ22%, p = 0.013) and decreased the pt clearance (δ-28%, p = 0.013). metformin plasma levels were all within the therapeutic range for diabetic patients (0.1-4 mg/l). conclusion the rp2d of metformin in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel in advanced ovarian cancer is 1000 mg tds. this is higher than the rp2d reported for combination with targeted agents. a potential pk interaction of metformin with carboplatin was identified.
purpose: the aim of the study is to compare the risk of revision of single-bundle hamstring anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction between the anteromedial, transtibial and outside-in techniques.methods: this cohort study was based on data from a single surgeon's registry. patients who underwent primary single-bundle acl reconstruction with hamstring tendon using the anteromedial portal, transtibial and outside-in technique, operated between 1 november 2003 to 31 december 2016, were eligible for inclusion. a minimum follow-up of 2 years was used, and the end-point of the study was revision surgery.results: the total number of registered surgeries identified was 665; 109 were excluded, and 556 was the final sample. the overall revision rate was 8.7%. the transtibial technique presented 14/154 [9.9%] of revisions, the transportal 11/96 [11.4%] and the outside-in 22/306 [7.2%]. separating the outside-in group into central outside-in and anteromedial (am) outside-in, 18/219 [8.2%] was found for the central outside-in and 4/87 [4.5%] for the am outside-in technique. statistical evaluation of the first comparison (transtibial vs. transportal vs. outside-in) obtained p = (n.s.) the second comparison (transtibial vs. central transportal vs. central outside-in vs. am outside-in, p = (n.s). placement was also evaluated: high anteromedial placement (transtibial) vs. central (transportal and central outside-in technique) vs. am placement (am outside-in). the high am placement presented 14/154 [9.9%] of revision, the central placement 29/315 [9.2%] and the am placement 4/87 [4.5%], p = (n.s.) the am placement was also compared with the other placements (high and central am), p = (n.s.) conclusion: based on the registry of a single surgeon during 14 years of acl reconstruction, the placement of the femoral tunnel in the high anteromedial region was associated with a rupture rate of 9.9%, central placement with 9.2% and anteromedial placement with 4.5%.
purpose: international and national studies have shown unmet information needs regarding nutrition in breast cancer patients. an intervention study has examined the question of the extent to which a fact sheet on the topic of nutrition is suitable to cover the need for information of breast cancer patients.method: the fact sheet with basic information on nutrition was distributed in 21 intervention breast care centres in 2017. the use of the fact sheets was evaluated in a quasi-experimental design as part of the annual breast cancer patients' survey of the university of cologne. the breast cancer patients considered were being treated with primary breast carcinoma in a hospital in north rhine-westphalia. a multilevel analysis was carried out in order to quantify the effect of the intervention.results: unmet information needs are experienced more by younger and non-native german-speaking patients. with regard to education, patients without a graduation and a high grade of education express more unmet information needs. the multilevel analysis showed that patients who were treated at an intervention site and therefore possibly received the fact sheet have a significantly higher chance of their information needs being met (or = 1.45; p ≤ 0.05).conclusion: the intervention study showed that a fact sheet with basic information on nutrition is a possible instrument to satisfy the information needs of breast cancer patients and therefore reduce unmet information needs regarding nutrition. this intervention study is a pragmatic example on how to reduce unmet information needs among breast cancer patients in germany.
purpose: neuroblastoma is a malignant solid tumor that originates from the sympathetic nervous system in early childhood. temozolomide is used for treatment in high-risk groups with low treatment response of neuroblastomas. trpa1 channels in neuroblastoma cells are calcium permeable channels that can be activated by reactive oxygen species (rot). in this study, we aimed to evaluate the level of activity of temozolomide and selenium in neuroblastoma cells via trpa1 channels.method: seven main groups were formed using sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells. the control was divided into temozolomide (tmz) (100 μm, 24 h), tmz+sel+ap18, sel (sodium selenite, 100 μm, 24 h), and sel+ap18 groups. intergroup calcium signaling, intracellular reactive oxygen species, caspase-3 and caspase-9, and mitochondrial depolarization analyses were performed by channel activation with trpa1 agonist cinnamaldehyde in all groups.results: cytosolic calcium concentration, apoptosis, caspase-3 and caspase-9 activation, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, and rot levels were higher in tmz (p < 0.001), tmz+sel (p < 0.001), and sel (p < 0.05) groups than the control group. trpa1 was lower in ttmz+ap18, tmz+sel+ap18, and sel+ap18 groups with channel blockers than respectively tmz, tmz+sel, and sel groups without channel blockers (p < 0.05).conclusion: the use of selenium with temozolomide increased the apoptotic efficacy of temozolomide via trpa1 channels on tumor cells.
purpose: there have been no large-scale studies on whether metformin therapy might have a potential benefit for lowering mortality. thus, this study aimed to investigate the association between prior metformin therapy and the development of sepsis as well as the association between prior metformin therapy and 30-day mortality in sepsis patients.methods: we evaluated adult diabetes patients registered in the 2010 sample cohort database of the national health insurance service in south korea. diabetes was identified according to the international classification of disease-10 diagnostic system (e10-e14). the cohorts were divided into the metformin user group (i.e., those who had been prescribed continuous oral metformin over a period of ≥ 90 days) and the control group (i.e., all other individuals). the primary endpoint was the development of sepsis between 2011 and 2015, and the secondary endpoint was 30-day mortality among diabetes patients diagnosed with sepsis.results: in total, 77,337 patients (34,041 in the metformin user group and 43,296 in the control group) were included in the analysis, among whom 2512 patients (3.2%) were diagnosed with sepsis between 2011 and 2015. after propensity score adjustment, metformin use was not significantly associated with both the risk of sepsis (or: 0.92, 95%ci 0.82-1.03; p = 0.143) and the risk of 30-day mortality after diagnosis of sepsis (or: 0.94, 95%ci 0.75-1.17; p = 0.571).conclusions: prior metformin therapy was not significantly associated with the risk of sepsis and 30-day mortality after diagnosis of sepsis among diabetes patients.
it is thought that despite highly variable phenotypic expression, 70-80% of all epileptic cases are caused by one or more genetic mutations. next generation sequencing technologies, such as whole exome sequencing (wes), can be used in a diagnostic or research setting to identify genetic mutations which may have significant prognostic implications for patients and their families. in this study, 398 genes associated with epilepsy or recurrent seizures were stratified into tiers based on genotype-phenotype concordance, tissue gene expression, frequency of affected individuals with mutations and evidence from functional and family studies. wes was completed on 14 dna samples (2 with known mutations in scn1a and 12 with no known mutations) from individuals diagnosed with epilepsy using an ion ampliseq approach. wes confirmed positive scn1a mutations in two samples. in n = 5/12 samples (s-3 to -14) we identified potentially causative mutations across five different genes. s-5 was identified to have a novel missense mutation in ccm2; s-6 a novel frameshift mutation identified in adgrv1; s-10 had a previously reported pathogenic mutation in pcdh19, whilst a novel missense mutation in pcdh19 was shown in s-12; and s-13 identified to have separate missense mutations in kcna2 and nprl3. the application of wes followed by a targeted variant prioritization approach allowed for the discovery of potentially causative mutations in our cohort of previously undiagnosed epilepsy patients.
in the present study, we described a new species of myxidium bütschli, 1882, obtained from the gallbladder of spinibarbus sinensis (bleeker, 1871) from the jialing river in chongqing, china. myxidium spinibarba sp. nov. was identified based on morphological and ssu rdna sequence data. the mature myxospores were fusiform in valvular view and ovoid in sutural view, with somewhat protrusive poles and mean dimensions (all in μm) of 11.8 ± 0.5 (10.6-12.4) in length and 6.1 ± 0.5 (5.5-7.2) in width. the polar capsules were pyriform and equal in size with mean dimensions of 3.6 ± 0.4 (3.0-4.4) in length and 3.0 ± 0.2 (2.7-3.2) in width. the new species was distinct from related species of myxidium in its morphology and molecular characteristics. phylogenetic analysis indicated the clustering of species based on the presence or absence of valvular striations. moreover, myxospore morphology, rather than the host environment, played an important role in the partial phylogenetic clustering.
heart failure is a major health problem worldwide with a significant morbidity and mortality rate. although studied extensively in animal models, data from patients at the compensated disease stage are lacking. we sampled myocardium biopsies from aortic stenosis patients with compensated hypertrophy and moderate heart failure and used transcriptomics to study the transition to failure. sequencing and comparative analysis of analogous samples of mice with transverse aortic constriction identified 25 candidate genes with similar regulation in response to pressure overload, reflecting highly conserved molecular processes. the gene cysteine-rich secretory protein lccl domain containing 1 (crispld1) is upregulated in the transition to failure in human and mouse and its function is unknown. homology to ion channel regulatory toxins suggests a role in ca2+ cycling. crispr/cas9-mediated loss-of-function leads to dysregulated ca2+ handling in human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes. the downregulation of prohypertrophic, proapoptotic and ca2+-signaling pathways upon crispld1-ko and its upregulation in the transition to failure implicates a contribution to adverse remodeling. these findings provide new pathophysiological data on ca2+ regulation in the transition to failure and novel candidate genes with promising potential for therapeutic interventions.
having one parent diagnosed with a severe mental disorder is considered one of the main risk factors for developing that disorder in adulthood, and it also increases the risk of a wide range of mental disorders in the offspring. the aim of this study is to compare the prevalence of several psychopathological diagnoses, the presence of prodromal symptoms, and global functioning in offspring of parents with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder and in offspring of controls at baseline and 2-year follow-up. this study included 41 offspring of parents with schizophrenia, 90 offspring of parents with bipolar disorder, and 107 offspring of controls (mean age 11.7 ± 3.2 at baseline and 13.9 ± 3.2 at follow-up). the prevalence of psychopathology and comorbidity was higher in offspring of parents with schizophrenia and offspring of parents with bipolar disorder than in offspring of controls at baseline and at 2-year follow-up. interestingly, mood disorders were more prevalent in offspring of parents with bipolar disorder and disruptive disorders were more prevalent in offspring of parents with schizophrenia. prodromal symptoms were more frequent in offspring of parents with schizophrenia than in offspring of controls, while the offspring of parents with bipolar disorder showed an intermediate pattern. finally, global functioning was lower in the offspring of parents with schizophrenia than the offspring of parents with bipolar disorder and the offspring of controls. screening patients' children is clinically relevant, since, as a group, they have an elevated risk of developing a psychiatric disorder and of experiencing their first symptoms during childhood and adolescence.
services provided by protected areas (pas) are based on their natural heritage, as stated in the conservation objectives, and many depend on their landscape, the spatial pattern of land cover patches. we study changes in the service provision of a pa based on its landscape changes. as services are defined according to the conservation objectives of the pa, this can be used in monitoring the pa conservation status. using easily accessible historical land cover maps, landscape changes over time are identified and assessed according to changes in services provision, based on the pa conservation objectives. the pa under study is one of the oldest in europe. almost 80 years after its initial declaration, it was increased by incorporating surrounding areas. this helps to understand to what extent the oldest pa has conserved its environmental heritage, compared with what happened in the area most recently protected and not subjected to previous conservation regime. as expected in an area managed for conservation, changes in services in the older pa are small. but changes in the recently included area are also small and very similar to those ones. as change in ecosystem services are based on landscape changes, they do not relate only to the increase or decrease in the spatial distribution of single land covers but also on their joint spatial arrangement. this allows us to assess trade-offs among services provided by different land covers implied in landscape changes.
several environmental impacts are resulting from the process of anthropization and climate variability that have caused degradation of biomes and humid environments. thus, the objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of the anthropic process and the variation of climatic conditions on the dynamics of the marsh vegetation in the pandeiros river preservation area in the north of minas gerais, brazil. the enhanced vegetation index (evi) of product mod13q1 and the gross primary productivity (gpp) of product mod17a2 of the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) were used for the period from 2001 to 2017 were used in this process. rain and air temperature data were obtained from the conventional weather station of januária-mg. the time series were submitted to the nonparametric statistical test of mann-kendall. the process of anthropization of the swamp area in the environmental protection area of the pandeiros river/mg (epa) showed a pattern of expansion of vegetation cover associated with the reduction of the water table, a phenomenon resulting from the silting process and reduction of the incidence of rain in this region, which contributes to the reduction of ecosystem services. thus, understanding the influence of climatic variables on the dynamics of vegetation in humid environments, such as the epa swamp area on the pandeiros river, is essential for the preservation and recovery of these ecosystems and for the implementation of public policies for preservation and conservation.
anesthesia workspaces are integral components in the chains of many intraoperative bacterial transmission events resulting in surgical site infections (ssi). matched cohort designs can be used to compare ssi rates among operating rooms (ors) with or without capital equipment purchases (e.g., new anesthesia machines). patients receiving care in intervention ors (i.e., with installed capital equipment) are matched with similar patients receiving care in ors lacking the intervention. we evaluate statistical power of an alternative design for clinical trials in which, instead, ssi incidences are compared directly among ors (i.e., the ors form the clusters) at single hospitals (e.g., the 5 ors with bactericidal lights vs. the 5 other ors). data used for parameter estimates were ssi for 24 categories of procedures among 338 hospitals in the state of california, 2015. estimated statistical power was ≅8.4% for detecting a reduction in the incidence of ssi from 3.6% to 2.4% over 1 year with 5 intervention ors and 5 control ors. for ≅80% statistical power, >20 such hospitals would be needed to complete a study in 1 year. matched paired cluster designs pair similar ors (e.g., 2 cardiac ors, 1 to intervention and 1 to control). with 5 pairs, statistical power would be even less than the estimated 8.4%. cluster designs (i.e., analyses by or) are not suitable for comparing ssi among ors at single hospitals. even though matched cohort designs are non-randomized and thus have lesser validity, matching patients by their risk factors for ssi is more practical.
the determination of trace metal contents directly from a solid sample is a trend in modern atomic spectrometry. the aim of this study was to develop an analytical method for the routine determination of cd in lichens using solid sampling graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (ss-gf-aas). for the determination of cd, the temperature program of the graphite furnace was optimized using a mixed matrix modifier (pd + mg (no3)2 + triton x-100). the limit of detection and the limit of quantification were 0.9 μg/kg and 3 μg/kg, respectively. the analytical method for cd determination in the plant matrix was verified by the analysis of certified reference materials of lichens, seaweed, and rye grass. the developed procedure was applied to the study of cd distribution in thalli of usnea antarctica lichen from james ross island, antarctica. the ss-gf-aas analytical method is particularly suited for use in environmental studies and plant physiology (the microanalysis of anatomical structures).
object: surgery of tumours in the cerebellopontine angle (cpa) can lead to loss of facial nerve function. different methods of intra-operative nerve monitoring (iom) (including free-running emg, direct nerve stimulation and transcranial motor evoked potentials (tcmep)) have been used to predict facial nerve outcome during surgery. recent research has shown tcmep threshold increase and the occurrence of a-trains on the emg to have great potential in doing so. this study compares these two methods and correlates them to house-brackmann (hb) scores post-op in patients with tumours in the cerebellopontine angle.method: forty-three patients (one was operated twice) with large cpa tumours treated surgically in the radboud university medical center between 2015 and 2019 were included in this study. during surgery, tcmep threshold increases and a-train activity were measured. because our treatment paradigm aims at facial nerve preservation (accepting residual tumour), tcmep threshold increase of over 20 ma or occurrence of a-trains were considered as warning signs and used as a guide for terminating surgery. hb scores were measured post-op, at 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year after surgery. spearman's correlation was calculated between the iom-values and the hb scores for a homogeneous subgroup of 30 patients with vestibular schwannoma (vs) without neurofibromatosis type ii (nf-ii) and all patients collectively.results: tcmep threshold was successfully measured in 39 (90.7%) procedures. in the homogeneous vs non-nfii group, we found a statistically significant moderate-to-strong correlation between tcmep threshold increase and house brackmann score immediately post-op, at 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year after surgery (spearman's rho of 0.79 (p < 0.001), 0.74 (p < 0.001), 0.64 (p < 0.001) and 0.58 (p = 0.002), respectively). for a-trains, no correlation was found. similar results were found when including all patients with cpa tumours. a threshold increase of < 20 ma was a predictor of good facial nerve outcome.conclusion: these results show that tcmep threshold increases are strongly correlated to post-operative hb scores, while a-trains are not. this suggests tcmep threshold increases can be a valuable predictor for facial nerve outcome in patients with large tumours when facial nerve preservation is prioritized over total resection. in this study, we found no use for a-trains to prevent facial nerve deficits.
objective: to assess possible long-term excess mortality and causes of death of patients with chronic subdural hematoma (csdh).methods: a retrospective study (1990-2015) of adult patients (n = 1133, median age = 76 years old, men = 65%) with csdh identified by icd-codes and verified by medical records. all patients were followed until death or the end of 2017. cumulative relative survival ratios and relative excess risks of death (rer) were estimated by comparing patients' mortality with that in the entire regional matched population. the causes of death were compared with a separate reference group formed by randomly choosing sex, age, and calendar time matched controls (4 controls per each csdh patient).results: the median follow-up time was 4.8 years (range = 0-27 years), and 710 (63%) of the patients died (median age at death = 84 years old). the cumulative excess mortality was 1 year = 9%, 5 years = 18%, 10 years = 27%, 15 years = 37%, and 20 years = 48%. a subgroup of csdh patients (n = 206) with no comorbidity had no excess mortality. excess mortality was related to poor modified rankin score at admission (rer = 4.93) and at discharge (rer = 8.31), alcohol abuse (rer = 4.47), warfarin (rer = 2.94), age ≥ 80 years old (rer = 1.83), non-operative treatment (rer = 1.56), and non-traumatic etiology (rer = 1.69). hematoma characteristics or recurrence were unrelated to excess mortality. dementia was the most common cause of death among the csdh patients (21%) and the third most common cause in the reference group (15%, p < 0.001).conclusions: patients with csdh have continuous excess mortality up to 20 years after diagnosis. patient-related characteristics have a strong association with excess mortality, whereas specific csdh-related findings do not. csdh patients have an increased risk for dementia-related mortality.
purpose: aim of this study was to evaluate the responsiveness of the dutch version of the achilles tendon total rupture score (atrs-nl).methods: patients (n = 47) completed the atrs-nl at 3 and 6 months after achilles tendon rupture (atr). additionally, they filled out the euroqol-5d-5l (eq-5d-5l) and global rating of change score (groc). effect sizes (es) and standardized response means (srm) were calculated. the anchor-based method for determining the minimally important change (mic) was used. groc and improvement on the items mobility and usual activities on the eq-5d-5l served as external criteria. the scores on these anchors were used to categorize patients' physical functioning as improved or unchanged between 3 and 6 months after atr. receiver operating curve (roc) analysis was performed, with the calculation of the area under the roc curve (auc) and the estimation of mic values using the optimal cut-off points.results: there was a large change (es: 1.58) and good responsiveness (srm: 1.19) of the atrs-nl between 3 and 6 months after atr. using roc analysis, the mic values ranged from 13.5 to 28.5 for reporting improvement on eq-5d-5l mobility and groc, respectively. the auc of improvement on mobility and improvement on groc were > 0.70.conclusion: the atrs-nl showed good responsiveness in atr patients between 3 and 6 months after injury. use of this questionnaire is recommended in clinical follow-up and longitudinal research of atr patients. mic values of 13.5 and 28.5 are recommended to consider atr patients as improved and greatly improved between 3 and 6 months after atr.level of evidence: ii.
purpose: to determine if a concurrent posterior repair for an asymptomatic rectocele at the time of sacrocolpopexy reduces the incidence of surgical failure.methods: this is a retrospective chart review with a cross-sectional follow-up survey of all patients who underwent sacrocolpopexy from 2004 to 2014. demographic and operative data were collected from the medical record. for the cross-sectional portion, patients were contacted to obtain information on symptoms and retreatment after surgery. in this study, we included patients with an asymptomatic rectocele on examination, defined as ap or bp ≥ -1 on pop-q without defecatory dysfunction, which was defined as constipation based on the rome iii criteria, dyschezia, excessive straining and/or splinting to have a bowel movement. the primary outcome was a composite score of subjective bulge symptoms or retreatment for prolapse.results: three hundred forty-four patients met the inclusion criteria: 185 (53.8%) had a sacrocolpopexy only (scp) and 159 (46.2%) had a concurrent posterior repair (scp + pr). the composite failure rate was 10.2% (95% ci = 7.4-13.8%), with a 13.5% (25) failure rate in the scp group compared with 6.3% (10) in the scp + pr group (p = 0.03). on multivariable logistic regression, the adjusted odds of failure was 2.79 in the scp compared with the scp + pr group (ci 1.25-6.23; p = 0.01). the rates of de novo defecatory dysfunction following surgery were low (scp = 5.6% vs. scp + pr = 7.5%, p = 0.55).conclusions: for patients with asymptomatic rectoceles, a concurrent posterior repair at the time of sacrocolpopexy reduces the odds of composite patient-centered failure without an increased rate of dyspareunia or de novo defecatory dysfunction.
introduction and hypothesis: limited data exist comparing different surgical approaches in women with advanced vaginal prolapse. this study compared 2-year surgical outcomes of uterosacral ligament suspension (uls) and sacrospinous ligament fixation (sslf) in women with advanced prolapse (stage iii-iv) and stress urinary incontinence.methods: this was a secondary analysis of a multicenter 2 × 2 factorial randomized trial comparing (1) uls versus sslf and (2) behavioral therapy with pelvic floor muscle training versus usual care. of 374 subjects, 117/188 (62.7%) in the uls and 113/186 (60.7%) in the sslf group had advanced prolapse. two-year surgical success was defined by the absence of (1) apical descent > 1/3 into the vaginal canal, (2) anterior/posterior wall descent beyond the hymen, (3) bothersome bulge symptoms, and (4) retreatment for prolapse. secondary outcomes included individual success outcome components, symptom severity measured by the pelvic organ prolapse distress inventory, and adverse events. outcomes were also compared in women with advanced prolapse versus stage ii prolapse.results: success did not differ between groups (uls: 58.2% [57/117] versus sslf: 58.5% [55/113], aor 1.0 [0.5-1.8]). no differences were detected in individual success components (p > 0.05 for all components). prolapse symptom severity scores improved in both interventions with no intergroup differences (p = 0.82). serious adverse events did not differ (uls: 19.7% versus sslf: 16.8%, aor 1.2 [0.6-2.4]). success was lower in women with advanced prolapse compared with stage ii (58.3% versus 73.2%, aor 0.5 [0.3-0.9]), with no retreatment in stage ii.conclusions: surgical success, symptom severity, and overall serious adverse events did not differ between uls and sslf in women with advanced prolapse. clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct01166373.
objectives: nocturia is the number of times urine is passed during main sleep. this definition tells us that it is a need to void; it does not tell us what triggers it. the aim of this study is to report bladder sensations that wake up women with nocturia (n). descriptions of sensations in relation to various overactive bladder (oab) symptoms, most bothersome symptoms, urinary incontinence (ui) and urodynamic findings are examined.materials and methods: a prospective study of women > 18 years old presenting with oab and nocturia. data collected included presenting and most bothersome symptoms, descriptions of bladder sensations associated with nocturia, number of frequency and nocturia episodes, nighttime ui and urodynamic findings.results: one hundred fifty women were recruited with mean age 52 years, mean duration of symptoms 10.5 months and mean number of nocturia episodes 4.5. all women reported multiple presenting and bothersome symptoms. fifty-five per cent had detrusor overactivity (do). "multiple" and "more intense" bladder sensation descriptions of nocturia were associated with advanced age, more frequent nighttime ui, when nocturia was considered most bothersome and in the presence of do. the most frequent single description was "strong desire to void". the most frequently used combination was "strong desire to void, sudden compelling desire to void, bladder pain and full bladder".conclusion: descriptions of bladder sensations associated with nocturia in women with oab were diverse and overlapping. it is important to report clinically and in research why patients have nocturia as this will have bearing on its treatment.
this is the first report of a highly efficient agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation protocol for acanthaceae and its utilization in revealing important roles of cytokinin in regulating heterophylly in hygrophila difformis. plants show amazing morphological differences in leaf form in response to changes in the surrounding environment, which is a phenomenon called heterophylly. previous studies have shown that the aquatic plant hygrophila difformis (acanthaceae) is an ideal model for heterophylly study. however, low efficiency and poor reproducibility of genetic transformation restricted h. difformis as a model plant. in this study, we reported successful induction of callus, shoots and the establishment of an efficient stable transformation protocol as mediated by agrobacterium tumefaciens lba4404. we found that the highest callus induction efficiency was achieved with 1 mg/l 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (naa) and 2 mg/l 6-benzyladenine (6-ba), that efficient shoot induction required 0.1 mg/l naa and 0.1 mg/l 6-ba and that high transformation efficiency required 100 µm acetosyringone. due to the importance of phytohormones in the regulation of heterophylly and the inadequate knowledge about the function of cytokinin (ck) in this process, we analyzed the function of ck in the regulation of heterophylly by exogenous ck application and endogenous ck detection. by using our newly developed transformation system to detect ck signals, contents and distribution in h. difformis, we revealed an important role of ck in environmental mediated heterophylly.
introduction: there remains disagreement about the use of cemented or uncemented total hip arthroplasty (tha) for patients with a displaced intracapsular femoral neck fracture (fnf). the aim of this study was to assess implant survival, mortality, and postoperative complication rates of uncemented tha for a displaced intracapsular fnf in a single center.patients and methods: a cohort of 115 patients who received uncemented thas for a displaced intracapsular fnf was retrospectively examined for implant survival in terms of revision and any reoperation, mortality, and postoperative complications.results: the one- and five-year implant survival was 99.1% (95% confidence interval (ci) 97.3-100.9) and 97.8% (95% ci 94.7-100.9) for revision and 93.6% (95% ci 88.9-98.3) and 90.0% (95% ci 83.3-96.7) for any reoperation, respectively. impaired mobility was significantly associated with lower implant survival (p = 0.01). the one, three, and 12 month mortality rates were 2.8% (95% ci 0-5.9), 3.7% (95% ci 0.2-7.2), and 5.6% (95% ci 1.3-9.9), respectively. postoperative complication rate was 10% with 5% intra-operative fractures.conclusions: contrary to earlier reports of results of uncemented tha for displaced fnf, the results of this study were comparable with those reported in the literature for cemented tha in displaced fnf with respect to implant survival, mortality, and complication rates. this indicates that uncemented tha could be a viable option for these patients. in future, the additional literature with a prospective design is needed to support and reinforce our conclusion.
septins are a highly conserved family of gtpases which are identified in diverse organisms ranging from yeast to humans. in mammals, nervous tissues abundantly contain septins and associations of septins with neurological disorders such as alzheimer's disease and parkinson's disease have been reported. however, roles of septins in the brain development have not been fully understood. in this study, we produced a specific antibody against mouse sept1 and carried out biochemical and morphological characterization of sept1. when the expression profile of sept1 during mouse brain development was analyzed by western blotting, we found that sept1 expression began to increase after birth and the increase continued until postnatal day 22. subcellular fractionation of mouse brain and subsequent western blot analysis revealed the distribution of sept1 in synaptic fractions. immunofluorescent analyses showed the localization of sept1 at synapses in primary cultured mouse hippocampal neurons. we also found the distribution of sept1 at synapses in mouse brain by immunohistochemistry. these results suggest that sept1 participates in various synaptic events such as the signaling, the neurotransmitter release, and the synapse formation/maintenance.
the aim of the present study was to evaluate the h2o2 scavenging activity of the zno2/β-cd as a biocompatible composite. zinc peroxide was prepared via sonochemical approach. to synthesize a green composite, β-cyclodextrin was modified by citric acid (ca) and reacted with zno2 under ultrasonic irradiation. the prepared samples were characterized using xrd, sem, tga and ftir analytical techniques. xrd analysis exhibited a typical pattern of zno2 and demonstrated the presence of citric acid and β-cyclodextrin in composite. the results of the catalytic assay showed that the zno2/ca-βcd composite displayed stronger capability to decompose h2o2 in comparison to zno2 particles (about seven times). it was attributed to increased adsorption capacity and solubility of composite due to the presence of citric acid and β-cyclodextrin. mtt assay studies confirmed the non-cytotoxic nature of zno2 particles and zno2/ca-βcd composite.
carbon and water fluxes and their interactions with climate drivers in alpine grasslands on the tibetan plateau are poorly understood. this lack of understanding is particularly evident for the alpine steppe in the nam co area of the hinterland on the tibetan plateau, which is vulnerable and exceedingly sensitive to climate change. in this study, eddy covariance (ec) measurements of carbon dioxide (co2) and water fluxes were carried out in this region during the growing season of 2008 and 2009, with contrasting hydrological conditions. the results show that (1) the monthly patterns of carbon and water fluxes differed markedly in the two years; the total respiration (re), net ecosystem carbon dioxide exchange (nee) and gross primary productivity (gpp) were 181.6 ± 11.5, - 62.6 ± 10.8, and 244.2 ± 9.6 and 144.6 ± 12.0, - 32.4 ± 11.7, and 176.9 ± 12.3 g c m-2 during the growing seasons in 2008 and 2009; meanwhile, the cumulative evapotranspiration (et) values were 503.1 ± 13.5 and 387.3 ± 8.2 mm during the growing season in 2008 and 2009, respectively. the cumulative carbon fluxes and et were both higher in the wetter 2008 than in the drier 2009, consistent with the precipitation results. (2) soil water content (swc) played a paramount role in the variations in carbon fluxes (nee, gpp, and re) and et during the vegetative period over the two years. as a result, the alpine steppe ecosystem was water-limited. (3) water stress caused by the low surface soil water content significantly depressed photosynthesis and et during the daytime in july and august. (4) water use efficiency (wue) had a negative relationship with swc during the growing season in these two years, and the wue increased during drought.
introduction: only a few large-scale studies have examined the care gap in japan. the present study aims to examine the care gap for secondary fracture prevention.materials and methods: changes in the rates of bone mineral density testing (test rate) and osteoporosis pharmacotherapy administration (treatment rate) before and after hip and vertebral fracture registration were examined based on medical insurance data from the medical care system for elderly individuals in hokkaido, japan, issued from july 2013 to december 2018.results: the hip fracture group comprised 18,258 women and 4162 men, whereas the vertebral fracture group comprised 34,907 women and 9958 men. test rates were 0.2% and 1.4% prior to fracture registration (pre-registration) and 19.9% and 40.5% after fracture registration (post-registration) in the hip and vertebral fracture groups, respectively. moreover, pre-registration treatment rates were 18.3% and 28.2% and post-registration rates were 32.7% and 61.0% in the hip and vertebral fracture groups, respectively. the vertebral fracture group had a significantly higher post-registration test and treatment rates than the hip fracture group. moreover, the post-registration test and treatment rates in the hip fracture group tended to increase over the years. both fracture groups showed a tendency for decreased post-registration test and treatment rates as age increased, with lower rates observed among men.conclusions: test and treatment rates after hip fracture registration remain lower compared with those after vertebral fracture registration. to bridge the care gap following fractures, medical professionals need better awareness regarding osteoporosis treatment for hip fractures among elderly individuals and males.
introduction: to investigate the effect of different frequencies of whole body vibration (wbv) on articular cartilage of early knee osteoarthritis (oa) rats and determine whether wbv would influence the pathway of hypoxia-inducible factor-2α (hif-2α) regulation-related genes after 8 weeks of treatment.materials and methods: forty 8-week-old oa rats were divided into five groups: sham control (sc); high frequency 60 hz (hv1); high frequency 40 hz (hv2); middle frequency 20 hz (mv) and low frequency 10 hz (lv). wbv (0.3 g) treatment was given 40 min/day and 5 days/week. after 8 weeks, rats were killed and knees were harvested. oa grading score: osteoarthritis research society international (oarsi), and the expression of related genes: interleukin-1β (il-1β), hif-2α, matrix metalloproteinases-13 (mmp-13), and collagen type ii alpha 1 (col2a1), at both mrna and protein levels were analyzed.results: after 8 weeks of wbv, our data showed that lower frequency (10 hz) was more effective than the higher ones, yet they all suggested that wbv alleviates the erosion of knee articular cartilage in early oa. the expression of il-1β, hif-2α and mmp-13 decreased with frequency and reached the lowest level at 10 hz, the expression of col2a1 increased with frequency and reached the highest level at 10 hz.conclusions: this study demonstrates that wbv could alleviate the degeneration of knee joints in an early oa rat model. wbv regulates related gene expression at both mrna and protein levels. hif-2α could be a therapeutic target. the effect of wbv is frequency dependent; the lower frequency shows better effects.
gibbon ape leukemia virus (galv) can infect a wide variety of cells but fails to infect most cells derived from laboratory mice. transduction of human hematopoietic stem cells with galv retroviral vectors is more efficient than with amphotropic vectors. in this study, a moloney murine leukemia virus-gibbon ape leukemia virus (momlv-galv) vector was constructed by replacing the natural env gene of the full-length moloney mlv genome with the galv env gene. to monitor viral transmission by green fluorescent protein (gfp) expression, internal ribosomal entry site-enhanced gfp (ires-egfp) was positioned between the galv env gene and the 3' untranslated region (3' utr) to obtain pmomlv-galv-egfp. the momlv-galv-egfp vector was able to replicate with high titer in te671 human rhabdomyosarcoma cells and u-87 human glioma cells. to evaluate the potential of the momlv-galv vector as a therapeutic agent, the gene for the fusogenic envelope g glycoprotein of vesicular stomatitis virus (vsv-g) was incorporated into the vector. infection with the resulting momlv-galv-vsv-g vector resulted in lysis of the u-87 cells due to syncytium formation. syncytium formation was also observed in the transfected human prostate cancer cell line lncap after extended cultivation of cells. in addition, we deleted the galv env gene from the momlv-galv-vsv-g vector to improve viral genome stability. this momlv-vsv-g vector is also replication competent and induces syncytium formation in 293t, ht1080, te671 and u-87 cells. these results suggest that replication of the momlv-galv-vsv-g vector or momlv-vsv-g vector may directly lead to cytotoxicity. therefore, the vectors developed in this study are potentially useful tools for cancer gene therapy.
apart from the known efficacy of botulinum neurotoxin type a (bont/a) in hyperactive striated and smooth muscles, different pain states have become potential targets of toxin effects. this present study determined the comparative toxin effectiveness in pain reduction among those patients injected with bont/a in muscle-based and in non-muscle-based conditions. randomized controlled trials (rcts) on the effect of bont/a on selected pain conditions were included. the conditions were spasticity and dystonia for muscle-based pain. for non-muscle-based pain, conditions included were painful diabetic neuropathy (pdn), post-herpetic neuralgia (phn), trigeminal neuralgia (tn), complex regional pain syndrome (crps), and spinal cord injury (sci). in view of possibly differing pathophysiology, myofascial pain, temporomandibular joint (tmj), other joint or tendon pains, cervicogenic and lumbar pains, migraine and visceral pain syndromes were excluded. standardized mean difference was used as the effect measure and computed with stata. 25 rcts were analyzed. pooled estimates showed significantly lower pain score in the treatment group (z = 5.23, p < 0.01, 95% ci = - 0.75, - 0.34). subgroup analyses showed that bont/a significantly reduced both muscle-based (z = 3.78, p < 0.01, 95% ci = - 0.72, - 0.23) and non-muscle-based (z = 3.37, p = 0.001, 95% ci = - 1.00, - 0.27) pain. meta-regression using four covariates namely dosage, route, frequency and duration was done which revealed that dosage significantly affects standardized mean differences, while the other three covariates were insignificant. the joint f-test was found to be insignificant (p value = 0.1182). the application of the model with these covariates does not significantly explain the derived heterogeneity of standardized mean differences. in conclusion, bont/a can be effectively used in muscle-based and non-muscle-based pain disorders. we detected no difference between the presence and magnitude of pain relief favoring muscle-based compared to non-muscle-based pain. thus, we cannot say whether or not there might be independent mechanisms of toxin-induced pain relief for pain generated from either muscle or nerve hyperactivity.
fitts' law is a well-studied principle in psychology which holds that movement time (mt) varies with the size and distance of a target across a wide range of tasks. in a recent study, the authors demonstrated that performance on a current trial in a fitts' law paradigm is affected by what happens during the previous trial (tang et al. in psychon bull rev 25(5):1833-1839, 2018). the aim of the present study was to explore how long this trial-to-trial transfer might last and whether or not the transfer would occur between the left and right hands. a series of experiments was carried out using discrete trials, a paradigm in which the current authors and others have previously established that fitts' law operates (fitts and peterson in j exp psychol 67(2):103-112, 1964; tang et al. 2018). three inter-trial intervals (3 s, 4 s, and 5 s) were used in separate testing sessions, the order of which was counterbalanced across participants. in addition, trial-to-trial transfer was tested within a single hand and between hands. the results demonstrate that transfer from one trial to the next could bridge 4 s when either the right or the left hand was used and would disappear by 5 s. moreover, the effect transferred between the two hands. the endpoint accuracy of the current trial was not affected by the previous trial. these findings suggest that the trial-to-trial effect reduces over time and that the transfer of sensorimotor memory or the task set is independent of the particular hand used.
the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of mental fatigue (mf) induced by a 90-min continuous demanding cognitive task on balance control. twenty healthy young participants were recruited. they had to perform three postural tasks (on a stable support with eyes open, with eyes closed and on a wobble board) while standing on a force platform before and after watching a documentary in a control condition or carrying out a prolonged continuous demanding cognitive task (ax-continuous performance test-ax-cpt) in a mf condition. results showed that performing the ax-cpt generated mf since participants felt a higher subjective workload from the nasa task load index after the ax-cpt than after viewing the documentary. both the ax-cpt and the viewing of the documentary impaired balance control, mainly by affecting postural regulatory mechanisms which evolved towards a less automatic and less complex regulation mode with an increased participation of cognitive resources. mf generated by the ax-cpt affected balance control by compromising the attentional processing, while the deleterious influence of watching a documentary on postural control could stem from an adverse effect of prolonged sitting on balance control during subsequent standing.
background and study aim: currently, endoscopic resection of early colorectal cancer defined as carcinoma with limited invasion of the mucosa (tis) and submucosa (t1) is possible. however, lymph node spreading increases to 16.2% of cases when tumor invades the submucosa. we analyzed the previously identified factors for lymph node dissemination and recurrence, in our population.patients and methods: we analyzed retrospectively all patients with t1 tumors, treated at our center with endoscopic resection and some with additional surgery between january 2006 and january 2018. statistical analysis was performed using ibm spss statistics 25.0.results: one hundred fifty-nine patients were treated with endoscopic resection, 56.6% with additional surgery. the mean age was 68.74 years and 69. 9% were male. all patients who underwent additional surgery presented negative margins and 8.8% presented positive lymph nodes. in a mean follow-up of 23.36 months, 13 patients had relapsed. the risk of relapse did not differ between patients treated with additional surgery from those who only underwent endoscopic resection (p = 0.506). on the other hand, lymph node dissemination (p = 0.007) and a positive endoscopic margin (p = 0.01) were independent risk factors for relapse. there was a positive association between lymph node dissemination and lymphatic (p = 0.07), vascular (p = 0.007), and perineural (p = 0.001) invasion and also with degree of histological differentiation (p = 0.001).conclusion: in our study, lymphatic, vascular, and perineural invasion and also the degree of histological differentiation were associated with lymph node dissemination. however, the only independent risk factors for long-term recurrence were a positive margin and lymph node dissemination.
staphylococcus epidermidis is well recognized nosocomial pathogen in clinical settings for their implants associated infections. biofilm and virulence production executes a s. epidermidis pathogenesis against host. hence, interfering of biofilm formation has become an auspicious to control the pathogenesis of s. epidermidis. the present study evaluates antibiofilm potential of rhizophora mucronata against s. epidermidis biofilms. rhizophora mucronata leaves extract significantly inhibited the biofilm formation and quebrachitol was identified as an active compound responsible for the biofilm inhibition. quebrachitol significantly inhibited biofilm formation at concentration dependent manner without exhibit non-bactericidal property. and, quebrachitol reduced the biofilm building components such as exopolysaccharides, lipase and proteins production. confocal laser scanning microscopic studies obtained quebrachitol surface independent biofilm efficacy against s. epidermidis. notably, quebrachitol significantly reduced s. epidermidis adherence on biotic (coated with type i collagen and fibrinogen) and abiotic (hydrophobic and hydrophilic) surfaces. addition of quebrachitol inhibits autolysis mediated initial attachment and accumulation associated aggregation process. moreover, quebrachitol significantly reduced the hydrolases virulence production which supports s. epidermidis invasion into the host. furthermore, gene expression analysis revealed the ability of quebrachitol to downregulate the virulence genes expression which are mainly involved in biofilm formation and virulence production. the results obtained from the present study suggest that quebrachitol as an ideal candidate for the therapeutic action against s. epidermidis pathogenesis.
lack of cancer-targeted delivery of chemotherapeutics is one of the major obstacles for successful cancer therapy. nanostructured lipid carriers (nlc) have shown great promise in drug-delivery applications since they are highly scalable, biodegradable nanocarriers with high-drug-loading capacity. however, traditional method prepared nlc, the diameter of which range from 80 to 200 nm, is easily blocked and trapped in perivascular regions without further penetration. as a result, ultrasmall nlc with size under 100 nm or lower range are reported to be ideally tumor targeting carrier as it allows for superior tumor accumulation and permeation. moreover, surface modification of nlc with folic acid (fa) could significantly increase the drug-delivery efficiency through active targeting effect. in our study, an ultrasmall nlc with fa modification (fa-nlc) was prepared to load docetaxel (dtx) for cancer therapy. our results showed that dtx-loaded fa-nlc comprised of homogeneous particles with size around 30 nm. in addition, it exhibited great colloidal stability, satisfactory drug-loading efficiency, and high biocompatibility in vitro. meanwhile, in vivo studies indicated that ultrasmall fa-nlc exhibited greater tumor retention and enhanced antitumor effect compared with control.
the aim of this study was to clarify the effect of the spore-forming and lactic acid-producing probiotic strain, bacillus coagulans sank 70258, on human colonic microbiota of healthy subjects and ulcerative colitis patients. a model culture system was employed to construct the in vitro human colonic microbiota, to retain the bacterial species richness and simulate the patient's disordered composition, from the fecal inoculum. bacterial 16s rrna gene sequencing confirmed that administration of b. coagulans sank 70258 (at an initial concentration of 4 × 107-total cells/ml) suppressed bacteria related to the family enterobacteriaceae in the microbiota models for both healthy subjects (p = 0.016) and ulcerative colitis patients (p = 0.023). in addition, administration of b. coagulans sank 70258 increased bacteria related to the family lachnospiraceae (p = 0.031), thereby enhancing butyrate production (p = 0.031) in the microbiota models of healthy subjects. however, these changes were not observed in the microbiota models of ulcerative colitis patients, likely owing to the low abundance of lachnospiraceae species. this study demonstrates the potential of b. coagulans sank 70258 to exhibit antimicrobial activity against harmful organisms in patients with ulcerative colitis, while improving the intestinal microenvironment by increasing butyrogenesis in healthy persons. key points: • b. coagulans sank 70258 treatment reduced colonic enterobacteriaceae species. • b. coagulans sank 70258 treatment enhanced butyrogenesis in healthy individuals. • b. coagulans sank 70258 treatment increased lachnospiraceae in healthy persons. • b. coagulans sank 70258 improves the colonic microenvironment in ulcerative colitis.
purpose: this study aimed to explore the differences in verdict parameters for normal prostatic tissues among different regions and age groups.materials and methods: in total, 31 male volunteers were included in the study. vascular, extracellular and restricted diffusion for cytometry in tumors (verdict) model parameters (fic, intracellular volume fraction; fees, extracellular-extravascular space fraction; and fvasc, vascular fraction) were calculated based on the whole prostate volume and the peripheral zone (pz), central gland (cg) and anterior fibromuscular stroma (as) regions of interest (rois). agreement between two readers was determined by calculating the intraclass correlation coefficient. two-way anova was used to identify significant differences among age groups and regions within the prostate. age-related and area-related changes in these parameters were assessed using spearman's correlation coefficients.results: there were differences in the parameters among regions of the prostate (p < 0.05). in the pz, there was a negative correlation between age and fic (r = - 0.66, p < 0.001, adjusted p < 0.001), and age was positively correlated with fees (r = 0.69, p < 0.001, adjusted p < 0.001) but had no correlation with fvasc. in the cg roi, there was a positive correlation between age and fees (r = 0.56, p < 0.001, adjusted p < 0.001) but no correlation between age and fvasc, similar to the results for the pz. there were no correlations between age and verdict parameters in the as.conclusion: verdict parameters vary among different regions of the prostate and correlate with age. these findings are in agreement with histological theory.
the assessment of skin fibrosis is vital for the diagnosis and monitoring of treatment in the systemic sclerosis (ssc)-a severe autoimmune disease. the elastography is a technique of skin fibrosis assessment through the evaluation of skin strain. we compared the efficacy of the shear wave elastography (swe) and commonly used modified rodnan skin score (rss) in skin fibrosis assessment in ssc. the study included 40 ssc patients and 28 healthy individuals, with the exclusion of individuals with other skin/autoimmune diseases. skin thickness using rss and skin strain using swe were assessed in the same 20 body localizations. subjects' informed consent and the bioethics committee approval were obtained. elastographic skin strain correlated positively with both partial and overall rss values, with strong positive correlation (r ≥ 0.75) for hands and fingers localizations in particular. in ssc patients with normal rss values, the elastographic strain was significantly higher than in healthy controls. elastographic strain of fingers' skin evaluated in swe is highly accurate for distinguishing ssc patients (sensitivity 0.897-0.923, specificity 0.929-0.964, positive predictive value 0.946-0.973, negative predictive value 0.867-0.900). esw results are substantially more reproducible than those of rss examination (intraclass correlation coefficients: 0.987 vs. 0.941). the shear wave elastography is more reproducible and has higher sensitivity than rss in the evaluation of skin condition in ssc, especially in case of changes non-detectable on physical evaluation, indicating it might become a useful tool in ssc diagnosis.
we aimed to study the mortality among hospitalized patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). we performed a retrospective cross-sectional study and identified patients with sle who were hospitalized at jordan university hospital (juh) between 2002 and 2017.there were 990 admissions among which 283 were sle patients. the mean age at disease onset was 34 ± 12.5 years and the female to male ratio was 8.4:1. forty patients died during the 15-year period. in-hospital case fatality was 14% over 15 years. for the deceased patients, the female to male ratio was 3.4:1, mean age at disease onset was 27.8 ± 11.5 years, mean age at death was 35.1 ± 12 years, and mean disease duration was 7.5 ± 6.9 years. twenty patients had disease duration ≤ 5 years. infection and sle-related complication contributed equally to mortality in hospitalized sle patients (42.5% [ci 27.5%-59%] and 40% [95% ci 25%-56.5%], respectively). infection related mortality compared to sle-related mortality was associated with younger age and shorter disease duration (29.5 years versus 38.3 years and 6.4 versus 8.7 years, respectively). crp was higher in infection related mortality compared to sle-related mortality (131.4 mg/dl versus 87.6 mg/dl, respectively). most sle-related deaths were secondary to pulmonary disease. renal disease did not contribute directly to mortality. no fatalities were attributed to cardiovascular disease (cvd) or cancer. infection and active sle accounted for the majority of deaths at a young age. significant pulmonary related deaths may indicate a change in trends in sle mortality, as renal related mortality is expected to decline due to proper management.
objectives: the purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic performance of flat-panel computed tomography (fpct) arthrography for cartilage defect detection in the ankle joint to direct magnetic resonance (mr) arthrography using multidetector computed tomography (mdct) arthrography as the reference standard.methods: twenty-seven patients with specific suspicion of articular cartilage lesion underwent ankle arthrography with injection of a mixture of diluted gadolinium and iobitridol and were examined consecutively with the use of fpct, mdct, and 1.5 t mr imaging. fpct, mdct, and mr arthrography examinations were blinded and randomly evaluated by two musculoskeletal radiologists in consensus. in each ankle, eight articular cartilage areas were assessed separately: medial talar surface, medial talar trochlea, lateral talar trochlea, lateral talar surface, tibial malleolus, medial tibial plafond, lateral tibial plafond, and fibular malleolus. findings at fpct and mr were compared with mdct assessments in 216 cartilage areas.results: for the detection of cartilage defects, fpct demonstrated a sensitivity of 97%, specificity of 95%, and accuracy of 96%; and mr arthrography showed a sensitivity of 69%, specificity of 94%, and accuracy of 87%. fpct and mr arthrography presented almost perfect agreement (κ = 0.87) and moderate agreement (κ = 0.60), respectively, with mdct arthrography. mean diagnostic confidence was higher for fpct (2.9/3) than for mr (2.3/3) and mdct (2.7/3) arthrography.conclusions: fpct demonstrated better accuracy than did 1.5 t mr arthrography for cartilage defect detection in the ankle joint. therefore, fpct should be considered in patients scheduled for dedicated imaging of ankle articular cartilage.
purpose: in india, antenatal anxiety prevalence estimates range from 6 to 48%. social support is strongly associated with mental wellbeing, yet most studies have examined the impact of support from partners and family members rather than peers, community members, or health care providers. this study explores the supportive role of accredited social health activists (asha) contacts for antenatal anxiety.methods: data were analyzed from the saving children, improving lives project, a quasi-experimental study conducted among rural, pregnant women in india. regression models were used to estimate adjusted prevalence ratios (aprs) and 95% confidence intervals for the relationship frequency of asha contacts and antenatal anxiety. antenatal anxiety was measured using a subscale of the edinburgh postnatal depression scale.results: the sample consisted of 480 pregnant women. reported antenatal anxiety prevalence was 27% (95% ci 23%, 31%). participants who were more frequently visited by ashas at home (apr: 0.90; 95% ci 0.76, 0.98) and more frequently accompanied by ashas to their antenatal care visits (apr: 0.86, 95% ci 0.78, 0.95) were less likely to report antenatal anxiety. asha home visits were protective for the most vulnerable women (primigravida and those experiencing domestic violence) and asha accompaniment to antenatal care visits was equally protective for all women.conclusions: ashas are valued for their contribution towards maternal health education and linking women of reproductive age to healthcare services. our findings additionally suggest the important role ashas play in providing social support to pregnant women, particularly those who are most vulnerable to experiencing antenatal anxiety.
background: severity stratification scores developed in intensive care units (icus) are used in interventional studies to identify the most critically ill. studies that evaluate accuracy of these scores in icu patients admitted with pneumonia are lacking. this study aims to determine performance of severity scores as predictors of mortality in critically ill patients admitted with pneumonia.methods: prospective cohort study in a general icu in brazil. icu severity scores (saps 3 and qsofa), prognostic scores of pneumonia (curb-65 and crb-65), clinical and epidemiological variables in the first 6 hours of hospitalization were analyzed.results: a total of 200 patients were included between august 2015 and july 2018 with a median age of 81 years (iqr 67-90) and female predominance (52%) primarily admitted from the emergency department (65%) with community acquired pneumonia (80.5%). poor discriminative performance in predicting mortality was found with saps 3, curb-65, crb-65 and qsofa. multivariate regression identified variables independently associated with mortality that were used to develop a novel pneumonia specific icu severity score (pneumonia shock score) that outperformed saps3, curb-65 and crb-65 (auc 0.80 vs 0.74, 0.65 and 0.63, respectively). discriminate function of the pneumonia shock score was validated in an external multi-center cohort of critically ill patients admitted with community acquired pneumonia (auc 0.81).conclusions: we created a parsimonious score system that accurately identifies elderly and non-elderly patients with pneumonia at highest risk of icu death. these findings are critical to accurately stratify patients with severe pneumonia in therapeutic trials that aim to reduce pneumonia mortality.© the author(s) 2020. published by oxford university press for the infectious diseases society of america. all rights reserved. for permissions, e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
background leukemia is common in aging adults and has very high mortality worldwide. the present study was designed to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of mir-18a inhibitor against wehi-3 and thp-1 leukemia cells. material and methods the changes in mir-18a inhibitor-transfected wehi-3 and thp-1 cell proliferative potential was measured by use of the cell counting kit-8 assay. apoptotic changes were analyzed by electron microscopy, and evaluation of pi3k, akt, mtor, and pten expression was assessed by rt-qpcr assay. results transfection of mir-18a inhibitor significantly (p<0.05) suppressed the proliferative potential of wehi-3 and thp-1 cells. the wehi-3 cells showed the presence of characteristic apoptotic bodies on transfection with mir-18a inhibitor at 48 h. flow cytometry showed that mir-18a inhibitor transfection significantly (p<0.05) increased the wehi-3 cell percentage in g1 phase. the transfection of mir-18a inhibitor significantly (p<0.05) promoted apoptosis in wehi-3 cells. in wehi-3 cells, mir-18a inhibitor transfection markedly suppressed the expression of pi3k, akt, and mtor mrna. the expression of pten mrna was significantly (p<0.05) upregulated by mir-18a inhibitor transfection in wehi-3 cells. conclusions the present study investigated the therapeutic efficacy of mir-18a inhibitor against wehi-3 and thp1 leukemia cells. the study demonstrated that mir-18a inhibitor suppressed the proliferative potential of wehi-3 and thp1 cells and activated apoptotic process through upregulation of pten mrna expression. therefore, mir-18a inhibitor can be of therapeutic importance for the treatment of leukemia.
background: prolonged grief disorder (pgd) is included in the icd-11 (11th edition of the international classification of diseases). the new pgd criteria reflect the requirements and recommendations of the world health organization for improved clinical utility and international applicability. even though the icd classification system is globally used, no research has investigated how healthcare professionals (hp) in non-western countries may adopt this change for their own practice.objective: the present study explored the extent to which the new pgd criteria were accepted and perceived to meet the standards for clinical utility and international applicability among chinese and german-speaking hp.methods: individual semistructured interviews were conducted in person, by phone, or online (e.g., via skype), with 24 chinese (n = 10) and german-speaking (n = 14) hp working with bereaved populations in china and switzerland, and analyzed using a qualitative framework analysis. questions included "what items are currently missing from the pgd criteria?".results: across all hp, the majority supported the inclusion of pgd and were generally aligned with the current criteria. hp found that the criteria distinguished between normal and abnormal grief and considered the criteria easy to use if their modifications were considered. merits included, among others, improved clinical decision making, research promotion, and social acknowledgment. main concerns included misdiagnosis, pathologization, and a lack of specificity of criteria. the importance of international applicability was emphasized across chinese and german-speaking hp. different grief-specific symptoms were identified by german-speaking and chinese hp.conclusions: these findings provide evidence for the clinical utility and international applicability of icd-11 pgd criteria among german-speaking and chinese hp, as well as cultural similarities and differences in the barriers to implementation of these criteria.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
introduction: caffeine and its metabolites have antioxidant activity, scavenging reactive oxygen species. aim of our study was to measure caffeine concentrations in vitreous samples after peroral caffeine intake.methods: this prospective study included patients scheduled for 23g pars plana vitrectomy with membrane peeling due to epiretinal membranes. the study was performed in two parts: in the first part patients were recruited into three different groups: group a consisted of habitual coffee drinkers, that agreed to drink coffee containing 180mg caffeine one hour before surgery (n=10), group b consisted of habitual coffee drinkers, that were not offered coffee before surgery (n=5), and group c consisted of non-habitual coffee drinkers, forming the control group (n=5). in the second part (group d) patients (habitual coffee drinkers) agreed to give additional blood serum samples for measurement of caffeine concentration. harvested samples of vitreous (group a to d), epiretinal membranes (group a to c), and blood serum samples (group d) were examined for concentrations of caffeine with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.results: samples of 40 eyes of 40 patients were harvested. the concentrations of caffeine in the vitreous samples were in group a of 1998 ng/ml +- 967 ng/ml and in group b of 1108 ng/ml +-874 ng/ml. in group c caffeine concentrations were below 176 ng/ml in all vitreous samples. both, groups a and b, had significantly higher concentrations of caffeine in the vitreous samples than group c (p<0.002, p<0.01, mann-whitney-u test). caffeine concentrations in epiretinal membranes were below the limits of detection. correlation of caffeine concentrations between blood serum samples and vitreous samples in group d was high, with significantly higher caffeine concentrations in the blood serum.conclusion: coffee consumption leads to significant caffeine levels in the vitreous compared to patients in the control group, and caffeine concentrations in the vitreous showed a high correlation to blood serum concentrations of caffeine after peroral coffee consumption.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
purpose: retinoblastoma is a primary pediatric ocular malignancy that could be fatal with inadequate treatment. whilst multimodal treatments are applied for eye salvage, yet vision loss and metastasis could occur in some patients. the present study aims to explore key pathways and factors in retinoblastoma pathogenesis, which could be potential targets for novel therapies of retinoblastoma treatments.methods: rna sequencing was performed on three retinoblastoma tissues and referenced with three normal retinas. differentially-expressed genes (degs) were identified from sequencing data, and further analyzed with clustering analysis, function and pathway enrichment, protein-protein interaction (ppi), and data-mining analysis in order to screen for tumorigenic relevancy.results: a total of 331 degs were identified by clustering analysis of retinoblastoma tissues, and the expression patterns were significantly distinguishable from normal retinas. function and pathway enrichment and ppi analysis together showed that cell cycle was the most prominently upregulated pathway found in retinoblastoma tissues. following comprehensive bioinformatic analyses, six key genes relevant to cell cycle regulation were identified, namely bub1, rrm2, tpx2, ube2c, nusap1 and dtl.conclusions: cell cycle pathway and six relevant genes may be potential key factors in retinoblastoma tumorigenesis, and laying foundation for prospective investigation on development of novel targeted therapies.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
background: recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin (rhtm) was approved in 2008 and has been used for treatment of disseminated intravascular coagulation in japan. the antifibrotic effects of rhtm in acute exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis are well established, but the therapeutic potential of rhtm in renal fibrosis remains poorly understood.methods: nephrotoxic serum nephritis (nts-n) was induced in 22 female wistar-kyoto (wky) rats on day 0. rats were administered either rhtm or vehicle intraperitoneally, every day from day 4 to day 55. rats were sacrificed on day 56 when renal fibrosis was established and renal morphological investigations were performed. in vitro, rat renal fibroblasts (nrk-49f) were pretreated with rhtm or saline, and expression levels of profibrogenic gene induced by thrombin were analyzed by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.results: compared to wky-gn-vehicle rats, the body weights of wky-gn-rhtm rats were significantly greater on day 55. by day 56, rhtm had significantly reduced serum creatinine levels in nts-n. on the other hand, urinary protein excretion was comparable between the two treatment groups throughout the study. the percentage of masson trichrome-positive areas in wky-gn-rhtm rats was significantly lower compared to that in wky-gn-vehicle rats. glomerular fibrin deposition was significantly reduced in wky-gn-rhtm rats. in addition, rhtm significantly reduced the renal cortical mrna expression levels of tnf-α, toll-like receptor 4, myd88, tgf-β, αsma, collagen i, collagen iii, fibronectin, and protease-activated receptor 1 (par1), a thrombin receptor. in vitro, thrombin stimulation of nrk-49f cells significantly enhanced the mrna expression levels of αsma and par1, and these upregulations were significantly reduced by pretreatment with rhtm.conclusions: administration of rhtm after establishment of crescentic glomerulonephritis (gn) attenuated the subsequent development of renal fibrosis in nts-n, possibly in part by inhibiting thrombin-mediated fibrogenesis. our results suggest that rhtm may offer a therapeutic option for limiting the progression of chronic kidney disease in crescentic gn.© 2020 the author(s) published by s. karger ag, basel.
background: alexithymia is a personality trait characterized by difficulties in identifying and describing emotions and associated with various psychiatric disorders. neuroimaging studies found evidence for morphological and functional brain alterations in alexithymic subjects. however, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying alexithymia remain incompletely understood.methods: we study the association of alexithymia with cortical correlation networks in a large community-dwelling sample of the study of health in pomerania. our analysis includes data of n = 2,199 individuals (49.4% females, age = 52.1 ± 13.6 years) which were divided into a low and high alexithymic group by a median split of the toronto alexithymia scale. cortical correlation networks were constructed based on the mean thicknesses of 68 regions, and differences in centralities were investigated.results: we found a significantly increased centrality of the right paracentral lobule in the high alexithymia network after correction for multiple testing. several other regions with motoric and sensory functions showed altered centrality on a nominally significant level.conclusions: finding increased centrality of the paracentral lobule, a brain area with sensory as well as motoric features and involvement in bowel and bladder voiding, may contribute to explain the association of alexithymia with functional somatic disorders and chronic pain syndromes.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
chloroplasts and mitochondria are semi-autonomous organelles and have their own genomes (cytoplasmic genomes). physical radiations (e.g., γ-rays) have been widely used in artificial mutation induction for plant germplasm enhancement and for breeding new cultivars. however, little is known at the genomic level about which kind of cytoplasmic mutations and/or characteristics could be induced in plants. the present study aimed to investigate the type, number, and distribution of inheritable cytoplasmic mutations induced by γ-rays in rice (oryza sativa l.). six plants were selected from the 2nd generation (m2) populations after γ-ray (137cs) irradiation of the rice cultivar nipponbare, 2 each for the 3 irradiation doses (150, 250, and 350 gy), and their genomes were sequenced on an illumina platform. together with the whole-genome sequencing data of 3 external nipponbare control plants, single-base substitutions (sbss) and insertions/deletions (indels) in chloroplast (cp) and mitochondrial (mt) genomes were identified and analyzed in-depth using bioinformatic tools. the majority of sbss and indels identified were background mutations in the 6 m2 plants, and the number of induced mutations varied greatly among the plants. most induced mutations were present in a heterogeneous state, reflecting the fact that multiple cp and mt copies existed in the progenitor cells. the induced mutations were distributed in different genomic regions in the 6 m2 plants, including exonic regions, but none of them was predicted to cause nonsynonymous mutations or frameshifts. our study thus revealed, at the genomic level, characteristics of cytoplasmic mutations induced by γ-rays in rice.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
in recent years, large-scale outbreaks of the green alga enteromorpha prolifera in china's offshore waters have posed a serious threat. this study aimed to improve enteromorpha polysaccharide (ep) enzymatic sugar production using the hydrolase system of vibrio sp. h11, an ep-utilizing microbial strain. strain h11 was found to contain 711 carbohydrate-related genes, and 259 genes belong to glycoside hydrolases that have the potential to hydrolyze ep. to maximize the capability of strain h11 to hydrolyze ep, both the culture medium and the composition were optimized. response surface methodology analysis showed that maximal enzymatic production from strain h11 was 8.43 u/ml after 26-h incubation. when 50 g/l of ep were treated with crude h11 enzyme, the concentration of fermentation sugars increased by 36.12%. under these conditions, the hydrolysates were capable of generating 3,217 ml/l of biogas and 6.74 g/l of biosolvents, with increases of 28.17 and 7.29%, respectively, compared to controls. the combined application of the h11 enzymatic system and anaerobic fermentation has the potential to improve the comprehensive application of ep.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
background: influenza viral infection is a major public health problem with significant morbidity and mortality.asthma is a risk factor for developing serious complications related to influenza infection.objective: we explored factors associated with influenza vaccination coverage among adolescents with asthma.methods: data were obtained from 62,276 participants in the 13th korean youth risk behavior web-based survey (kyrbs) conducted in 2017. kyrbs data were obtained from a stratified, multistage, clustered sample. we used multiple logistic regression analyses to identify variables potentially related to influenza vaccination in adolescents with asthma.results: the proportion of asthma was 8.8%, and the influenza vaccination rate overall was 37.9%. it was 41.8% in the asthma group and 37.5% in the nonasthma group (p < 0.001). after regression, male sex (odds ratio (or) = 1.45; 95% ci 1.35-1.55), a high socioeconomic status (or = 1.12; 95% ci 1.05-1.19), residence at an orphanage (or = 1.93; 95% ci 1.38-2.29), regular breakfast consumption (or = 1.09; 95% ci 1.02-1.17), and subjective good health (or = 2.39; 95% ci 1.69-3.39) were associated with increased influenza vaccination, whereas current smoking (or = 0.87; 95% ci 0.67-0.96) and a depressive mood (or = 0.77; 95% ci 0.64-0.95) were inversely associated in adolescents with asthma.conclusion: it is important to improve influenza vaccination in adolescents with asthma, especially females, those with a low socioeconomic status, independent residents, breakfast skippers, current smokers, and those who consider themselves unhealthy and have depressive moods.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
most eukaryotic genomes contain substantial portions of repetitive dna sequences. these are located primarily in highly compacted heterochromatin and, in many cases, are one of the most abundant components of the sex chromosomes. in this sense, the anuran proceratophrys boiei represents an interesting model for analyses on repetitive sequences by means of cytogenetic techniques, since it has a karyotype with large blocks of heterochromatin and a zz/zw sex chromosome system. the present study describes, for the first time, families of satellite dna (satdna) in the frog p. boiei. its genome size was estimated at 1.6 gb, of which 41% correspond to repetitive sequences, including satdnas, rdnas, transposable elements, and other elements characterized as non-repetitive. the satdnas were mapped by fish in the centromeric and pericentromeric regions of all chromosomes, suggesting a possible involvement of these sequences in centromere function. satdnas are also present in the w sex chromosome, occupying the entire heterochromatic area, indicating a probable contribution of this class of repetitive dna to the differentiation of the sex chromosomes in this species. this study is a valuable contribution to the existing knowledge on repetitive sequences in amphibians. we show the presence of repetitive dnas, especially satdnas, in the genome of p. boiei that might be of relevance in genome organization and regulation, setting the stage for a deeper functional genome analysis of proceratophrys.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
diurnal primates commonly modify their behaviour in response to predator vocalizations, but little is known about how nocturnal primates perceive predator calls. mouse lemurs do not innately perceive predator calls as dangerous but may learn to do so in the wild. i hypothesized that wild brown mouse lemurs (microcebus rufus) in ranomafana national park, madagascar, differentiate between predator and non-predator vocalizations and exposed 29 adult subjects to calls of 3 sympatric predators (goshawk, fossa and owl), 3 sympatric non-predators and 4 controls. brown mouse lemurs did not differentiate among stimuli, and there was no evidence that any recording was associated with danger, as neither activity nor spatial preferences changed in response to a stimulus, nor did subjects exhibit obvious behaviours indicative of danger such as flight or position on the branches. the failure to perceive predator calls as dangerous is common among small nocturnal solitary prey species and could be explained by a lack of learning opportunities. in social species acquired behaviours can spread quickly by social learning. solitary species like mouse lemurs have to individually learn to associate predator calls with danger which is dependent on encounter rates. unlike diurnal prey mouse lemurs lack the opportunity to observe diurnal raptors and associate their calls with the bird, and owls are proficient predators, which are difficult to observe in a rain forest where they hunt cryptically from perches. while sometimes nocturnal, the fossa is solitary and largely silent, and is also particularly rare at my study site. cryptic, rare or non-vocal predators provide prey with few opportunities to associate their calls with danger. mouse lemurs are subject to high predation rates by a wide range of predators and need to balance the costs and benefits of antipredation behaviours. their cryptic lifestyle and preference for dense vegetation lowers the likelihood of being detected by predators, and they utilize visual and olfactory predator cues to make decisions about risk. furthermore, their high reproductive output compensates for the high predation rates.© 2020 s. karger ag, basel.
introduction: the us-mexico region is at high risk of elevated tuberculosis (tb) incidence due to mobility and migration. knowledge of how socio-demographic factors varies geographically, provides clues to understanding the determinants of tuberculosis and may provide guidance for regional prevention and control strategies to improve public health in mexico. the aim of the present study was to describe the epidemiologic characteristics and spatial patterns of the incidence of tuberculosis in tonala, jalisco (mexico) from 2013-2015.methodology: the surveillance system database from the health department, complemented by information from the national institute of statistics and geography, was used to obtain data for a spatial-temporal analysis of tb cases. for the geographical analysis map creation and geoinformation storing, arcgis software was used.results: this study sought to characterize problem areas and jurisdictional locations of tb via a spatial approach based on analyses of case distributions and individual patient variables. the study found that tuberculosis cases were dispersed throughout tonala county and were mainly concentrated on the guadalajara city border. the tb cases were mainly individuals between 31 and 45 years old. most of the cases reported during the observation period were male patients, and most cases primarily had lung involvement; however, there were quite a few cases with lymph node and intestinal disease.conclusion: our findings show that tb cases are essentially located in areas close to the city of guadalajara and that most tb cases were pulmonary cases spread throughout the whole jurisdiction.copyright (c) 2020 alejandro escobar-gutierrez, armando martinez-guarneros, gustavo mora-aguilera, carlos arturo vazquez-chacon, gerardo acevedo-sanchez, manuel sandoval-díaz, juan carlos villanueva-arias, natividad ayala-chavira, maria elena vargas-amado, ikuri alvarez-maya.
introduction: camel trade in egypt depends mainly on importation. seemingly healthy imported camels are responsible for the ingress of serious diseases into egypt. a striking example of this concerning public health globally is the middle east respiratory coronavirus (mers-cov) which causes case fatalities of over 34%. here, we determined the seroepidemiological situation of the mers-cov in imported camels and their traders in upper egypt.methodology: sera of sixty-three dromedaries and twenty-eight camel traders were recruited (january 2015-december 2016). the age, gender, and sampling locality of each sampled camel and human were obtained. semi-quantitative anti-mers-cov igg elisas which utilize the purified spike protein domain s1 antigen of mers coronavirus (mers-cov s1) were used to detect specific igg antibodies against the virus.results: the data showed that 58.73% of imported camels and 25% of traders had antibodies specific to mers-cov. interestingly, like seroreactive camels, all seropositive humans were apparently healthy without any history of developing severe respiratory disease in the 14 days prior to sampling. having specific antibodies among the examined camel sera was significantly different (p < 0.0001) in relation to various sampling localities, gender and age groups. in contrast, the seropositivity rate of mers-cov igg in humans did not differ significantly by any of the studied factors.conclusions: the current study provides the first serological evidence of occupational exposure of humans to mers-cov in africa. additionally, it reports that imported camels could be implicated in introducing mers-cov into egypt. accordingly, application of strict control measures to camel importation is a priority.copyright (c) 2020 amal sayed, safaa malek, mostafa abushahba.
introduction: microbial translocation (mt) markers are indicators of hiv-related immune activation, but reference values are mostly derived from european or north american populations and could be substantially different in populations living in developing countries. here we evaluate possible differences in mt markers levels in hiv+ pregnant women of different geographical provenance.methodology: this study is nested within an observational study of pregnant women with hiv in italy. women were dichotomized on the basis of provenance in two groups of european (n = 14) and african (n = 26) origin. soluble cd14, lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (lbp) and intestinal-fatty acid binding protein (i-fabp) were measured in plasma samples collected between the first and second trimester of pregnancy.results: demographic and viroimmunological characteristics were similar between groups, although european women were more commonly smokers and hcv-coinfected. irrespective of origin, lbp plasma levels were positively correlated with i-fabp (r = 0.467, p = 0.004) and scd14 levels (r = 0.312 p = 0.060). significantly higher levels of scd14 (1885 vs. 1208 ng/ml, p = 0.005) lbp (28.5 vs. 25.3 µg/ml, p = 0.050) and i-fabp (573.4 vs. 358.2 pg/ml, p = 0.002) were observed in european compared with african women. a multivariable linear regression analysis, adjusted for smoking and hcv coinfection confirmed the association between scd14 levels and women provenance (p = 0.03).conclusions: our observations indicate significant differences in soluble markers among women of different provenance. in the design and analysis of studies evaluating mt markers, population-specific reference values should be considered.copyright (c) 2020 silvia baroncelli, clementina maria galluzzo, atim molinari, maria franca pirillo, albertina cavalli, elisa negri, marco floridia, anna degli antoni.
introduction: endometritis is a condition marked by inflammation of the endometrium that affects dairy cows from 21 days after parturition, causing damage to herd fertility and economic losses on farms. the use of active compounds obtained from plant sources has gained importance as disease treatment agents in farm animals due to the high resistance rates currently observed against traditional antibiotics commonly used. the study was carried out to examine the chemical composition and to investigate the antibacterial activity of rosemary, cinnamon, cloves, eucalyptus, lemon, oregano and thyme essential oils against the reference strain of escherichia coli (atcc 25922), fusobacterium necrophorum (atcc 25286), trueperella pyogenes (atcc 19411) and staphylococcus aureus (atcc 29213), considered as typical bacteria causing endometritis.methodology: the chemical composition of the seven essential oils were analyzed by gc-ms and their antibacterial activity was evaluated by the disc diffusion method.results: thirty-six components were identified in total using gc-ms analyzes. the main compounds were cinnamaldehyde (86.5% for cinnamon essential oil), eugenol (85.7% for clove essential oil), 1,8-cineol (80% for eucalyptus and 47.8% rosemary essential oils), limonene (65.5% for lemon essential oil), carvacrol (72.1% for oregano essential oil) and thymol (48.8% for thyme essential oil). the disc diffusion assay revealed that cinnamon, clove, oregano, and thyme essential oils showed the best results compared to the other three essential oils, showing the largest zone of inhibition against all bacteria evaluated.conclusions: these findings indicated that essential oils are a potential agent to be used as an alternative for bovine endometritis treatment.copyright (c) 2020 renan braga paiano, jeannine bonilla, ricardo luiz moro de sousa, andrea micke moreno, pietro sampaio baruselli.
introduction: the multidrug-resistant (mdr) salmonella enterica serovar typhi isolates have been increasingly reported from the asian and african countries. the emergence of isolates with decreased susceptibility to fluoroquinolones and cephalosporins has worsened the situation. recently, an outbreak from sindh, pakistan was reported caused by extensively drug-resistant (xdr) s. typhi strains.methodology: in the present study, a total of 82 cases of typhoid have been investigated during 2018 from the febrile children referred to a tertiary care hospital in the population-wise largest province (punjab) of pakistan. s. typhi was identified by standard microbiological techniques and isolates were characterized for antimicrobial resistance profiling and minimum inhibitory concentrations were determined. the presence of various esbl genes in s. typhi was confirmed by the pcr.results: out of the 82 isolates tested, 35 (43%) were found to be xdr; resistant to the first-line drugs. the resistance to third-generation cephalosporins was mainly mediated by extended-spectrum beta-lactamases i.e. blatem and blactx-m genes.conclusions: the higher prevalence of esbl producing salmonella typhi clinical strains raises the concern about transmission prevention and infection management in the community as well as clinical settings. moreover, the study highlights the problem concerning the declining antibiotic arsenal for the therapeutic management of typhoid fever and the emergence and spread of xdr strains in pakistan.copyright (c) 2020 muhammad saeed, muhammad hidayat rasool, farhan rasheed, muhammad saqalein, muhammad atif nisar, ambreen anwar imran, saba tariq, afreenish amir, mohsin khurshid.
introduction: helicobacter pylori is a principal cause of gastric cancer. the aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and contribution of duodenal ulcer promoting gene a (dupa), the plasticity region genes and sigma factors in relation to their pathological expression of h. pylori infections in the nigerian population.methodology: polymerase chain reaction was used to analyze a total of forty-nine h. pylori strains isolated from patients attending various endoscopic units in tertiary hospitals in nigeria for complete dupa (g27 variant), jhp0917, jhp0918, other plasticity region genes jhp 914/917, jhp0914, jhp0940 and sigma factors.results: pcr results indicated that the prevalence of complete dupa (g27 variants), jhp0917, jhp0918 and other plasticity region genes jhp0914, jhp0914/0917 and jhp0940 in the h. pylori strains were 4%, 53%, 88%, 73%, 12% and 0% respectively. the prevalence values of the sigma factors were 96%, 92%, 80% for rpon,  flia and rpod respectively. however, the endoscopic findings showed that erosion, normal mucosal, ulcer, hyperaemic stomach, mucosal atrophy and oedematous stomach in the patients where the h. pylori strains were isolated were 40.8%, 32.7%, 10.2%, 8.2%, 2.0% and 6.1% respectively. there was significant association between jhp0917, jhp914/917 and g27 variant and the endoscopic findings, while other plasticity genes showed no association with the endoscopic findings.conclusion: these results suggest that the presence of jhp0917, jhp0914/917 and g27 variant could be used as marker to predict the pathological effect of severity in nigeria patients with h. pylori infection.copyright (c) 2020 tolulope funbi jolaiya, muinah a fowora, charles onyekwere, rose ugiagbe, ifeanyi agbo, dennis ndububa, olusegun adekanle, henry njom, idowu ayodeji, isaac adeleye, moses bamidele, favor ngoka, pia palamides, stella smith, olufunmilayo lesi.
introduction: ventilator-associated pneumonia (vap) is one of the common serious infectious diseases encountered in the intensive care unit (icu), which highly affects the healthcare cost and patient prognosis. vap is caused by various antimicrobial-resistant aetiological agents and the clinical manifestations lack sensitivity and specificity, making the prompt treatment is a challenge. this study aimed to investigate the microbial profile of vap causing microorganisms among icu patients in egypt, antimicrobial susceptibility patterns and the genetic diversity among the frequently isolated organisms.methodology: throughout the period from august 2016 to august 2017, endotracheal aspirate (eta) specimens were collected from icu patients with clinically suspected vap in two tertiary hospitals in cairo. eta specimens were investigated for the microbial content. the antimicrobial susceptibility was determined by the kirby-bauer method. eric-pcr was performed for genotyping.results: fifty microbiologically confirmed vap cases were identified. the most frequently isolated microorganisms were klebsiella spp., followed by pseudomonas aeruginosa, acinetobacter baumannii. candida spp. was the most isolated fungi. a single isolate of each cupriavidus pauculus and aeromonas salmonicida was isolated. antimicrobial susceptibility profiles indicated 40% of isolates were multidrug-resistant (mdr). eric-pcr revealed no genetic relatedness among k. pneumoniae isolates, the most frequently isolated microorganism.conclusions: gram-negative bacteria are the main causative agents of vap cases, which mostly are mdr. microorganisms like c. pauculus and a. salmonicida should be taken into consideration as vap causative agents. there was no common source of infection suggesting likely endogenous sources of k. pneumoniae, the main causative agent of vap in this study.copyright (c) 2020 mahmoud tawfick, alaa farag, mostafa abozeed, emad shaban, maha abo-shadi.
introduction: escherichia coli (e. coli) is a very common uro-pathogen and pathogen of bloodstream infections (bsi) in jamaica. the aim of this study was to examine this organism's prevalence, determine co-infection rates and assess antibiotic resistance patterns.methodology: in the absence of automated systems, data on all e. coli isolates identified at the university hospital of the west indies in kingston, jamaica during the first six months of 2008 and 2012 was collected and sorted. data were analyzed using ibm spss statistics version 20 for windows.results: a total of 1188 isolates (1072 from urine and 116 from blood) was analyzed. patients with e. coli bsi were older than those with e. coli urinary tract infections (uti) (55.3 years vs 42.4 years, p < 0.05) and both had a female predominance. sensitivity profiles in 2012 for e. coli in blood and urine were highest for the carbapenems, amikacin and nitrofurantoin and lowest for the fluoroquinolones and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. based on antimicrobial susceptibility patterns, nitrofurantoin was identified as an appropriate choice for empiric therapy for uti. ten antibiotics were noted in this study to have developed statistically significant antibiotic resistance. patients with e. coli bsi had a co-infection e. coli uti rate of 39%.conclusions: resistance patterns change drastically in a few years making frequent antimicrobial susceptibility profiling necessary. further studies would be beneficial in guiding management of these patients.copyright (c) 2020 donna cheung, tiffany butterfield, marsha dacosta, alison nicholson.
introduction: the uncontrolled antibiotics use in livestock is a leading factor for the emergence and spread of resistant bacteria from food animals to humans through the food chain. this study aims at evaluating the magnitude of the antimicrobial resistance (amr) in food animals, acknowledging the lack of information on the prevalence of resistance in the veterinary field in qatar.methodology: rectal samples were collected from 171 sheep across three localities in qatar between december 2016 and july 2017. these rectal samples were suspended in phosphate buffer solution (pbs). then streaked onto a selective chromagar e. coli medium plates and incubated at 37°c for 18 to 24 h. isolated e. coli were tested for antibiotic susceptibility against 16 clinically- relevant antibiotics using the e-test method. statistical analyses were performed using spss statistics 24.results: e. coli was isolated from 144 samples (84.2%), of which 90% were resistant to at least one antibiotic and 44% were multi-drug resistant (mdr). the highest resistance was against ciprofloxacin 69.4% (100), followed by nitrofurantoin 47.2% (68), trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 45.8% (66), cephalothin 43% (62) and amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 18% (26). low resistance was reported to fosfomycin, amikacin and tigecycline 1.4% (2), 0.7% (1), and 0.7% (1), respectively.conclusions: we reported high mdr e. coli in rectal swabs of sheep in qatar. such resistant bacteria can potentially be transmitted to humans, resulting in public health concerns. this requires a quick response to develop and implement a stewardship program for the monitoring of antibiotic use in the veterinary in qatar.copyright (c) 2020 nahla eltai, asma al thani, sara al-hadidi, elmoubasher abdfarag, hamad al-romaihib, mahmoud h mahmoud, osama k alawad , hadi yassine.
introduction: antimicrobial resistance is a global health crisis and primarily caused by antibiotic misuse. antibiotic misuse among children is particularly concerning, and its prevalence may vary from region to region in china with different development levels.methodology: zhejiang and shaanxi were selected to represent developed and less developed provinces in china, respectively. data of 2924 parents in zhejiang and 3355 parents in shaanxi whose children were 0-13 years old were collected through multi-stage stratified cluster random sampling and a self-administrated questionnaire. chi-square tests and logistic regression models were used for statistical analysis.results: compared to parents in zhejiang, those in shaanxi were more likely to keep antibiotics for children at home, to engage in self-medication with antibiotics for children, and to make their children take antibiotics prophylactically. while there were no significant provincial differences between parents' requests for antibiotics during pediatric consultations, parents in shaanxi province were more likely to receive prescribed antibiotics.conclusions: children in less developed provinces face higher risks of antibiotic misuse at home as well as when attending medical practitioners. comprehensive educational interventions are required to improve antibiotic use for children all over china but particularly in less developed provinces such as shaanxi. furthermore, non-prescription sales and over-prescribing of antibiotics should be reduced by targeted strategies.copyright (c) 2020 yannan xu, jingjing lu, chenhui sun, xiaomin wang, yanhong jessika hu, xudong zhou.
although many studies have focused on functional impairment after intracerebral hemorrhage, little is known about the relationship between secondary injuries to distal regions and neurological function. our study aimed to evaluate the secondary injuries after intracerebral hemorrhage and explore their relationship to neurological functional outcome. twenty-one patients with hemorrhages in supratentorial, deep locations and 10 healthy subjects were recruited. longitudinal examinations of diffusion tensor imaging, hydrogen proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging and neuropsychological assessment were performed after weeks 1 and 12 to elucidate the relationship between magnetic resonance imaging parameters and neurologic outcomes. by week 12, motor function had significantly improved, but cognitive function had deteriorated compared to week 1. fractional anisotropy values for the ipsilateral cerebral peduncle correlated with motor function at week 1. no significant correlation between fractional anisotropy for the ipsilateral cerebral peduncle and the fugl-meyer motor scale was found at week 12. fractional anisotropy values for the ipsilateral hippocampus were related to the montreal cognitive assessment and mini-mental state examination at weeks 1 and 12. deep supratentorial hemorrhage may result in injury to distal regions, which correlate with impaired motor and cognitive function.
background clinical or biochemical markers that have good correlation with magnetic resonance proton density fat fraction (mr pdff) can be used as simple tools for the screening for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) and in determining the degree of fatty infiltration of the liver. the objective of this study was to determine the degree of relationship between mr pdff and ultrasonography (usg) grades of fatty liver, and clinical and biochemical parameters of adolescents and to determine the sensitivity and specificity of usg for diagnosis of nafld. methods this prospective study included 34 overweight adolescents (mean age, 12.1 ± 1.5 years; range, 10-15.1 years; 10 girls and 24 boys) who underwent both usg and magnetic resonance imaging (mri). correlation analysis was performed between mr fat fraction and usg grades of fatty liver, and clinical and biochemical parameters of fatty liver disease. results mr fat fraction had a moderate positive correlation with serum alanine transaminase (alt) and aspartate transaminase (ast) (ρ = 0.634, p < 0.001, ρ = 0.516, p = 0.002, respectively) and had a negligible or weak correlation with body mass index (bmi), bmi standard deviation score (sds), waist circumference (wc), fasting insulin, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (homa-ir), serum triglyceride, low-density lipoprotein (ldl), high-density lipoprotein (hdl) and total cholesterol levels. the sensitivity and specificity of usg in the diagnosis of nafld were 81% (95% confidence interval 54%-95%) and 50% (27%-73%), respectively. the mr fat fraction had a moderate positive correlation with ultrasound grades of fatty liver (ρ = 0.487, p = 0.003). conclusions serum alt and ast are potential biochemical markers to assess the degree of hepatic steatosis in nafld, which needs validation in further studies. usg can be used as a screening tool for nafld, but the diagnosis should be confirmed by estimating the mr fat fraction.
background progranulin (pgrn) is implicated in obesity and insulin resistance (ir). the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of 8 weeks of circuit resistance training (crt) on plasma pgrn, ir and body composition in obese men. materials and methods twenty-eight healthy obese men [age: 36 ± 7.7 years, body weight (bw): 96.4 ± 15.6 kg, body mass index (bmi): 32.4 ± 4.5 kg/m2] completed the study. subjects were randomly assigned to two groups of control and training. subjects in the training group underwent training for 8 weeks, 3 times a week. blood samples and anthropometric characteristics were taken before the commencement of the exercise protocol and 72 h after the last training session. the homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (homa-ir) was used to measure ir. results bw, bf%, bmi, waist-hip ratio (whr), homa-ir and plasma pgrn levels except lean body mass (lbm) were significantly reduced in the training group (p < 0.05). additionally, except for lbm, subjects in the training group had significantly decreased bw, bf%, bmi, whr, homa-ir and plasma pgrn levels compared to changes in those in the control group (p < 0.05). significant correlations were found between the changes in plasma pgrn and the changes in insulin, homa-ir and bmi (p < 0.05). conclusions the findings showed that 8 weeks of crt improved body composition and ir which were accompanied by reduced plasma pgrn levels. this study suggests that crt has the potential for obese individuals to counteract obesity-associated health impairments.
the genealogy of graduate medical education in america begins at the bedside. however, today's graduate medical trainees work in a training environment that is vastly different from medical training a century ago. the goal of the graduate medical education laboratory (gel) study, supported by the american medical association's (ama) "reimagining residency" initiative, is to determine the factors in the training environment that most contribute to resident well-being and developing diagnostic skills. we believe that increasing time at the bedside will improve clinical skill, increase professional fulfillment, and reduce workplace burnout. our graduate medical education laboratory will test these ideas to understand which interventions can be shared among all training programs. through the gel study, we aim to ensure resident readiness for practice as we understand, then optimize, the learning environment for trainees and staff.
background: many natalizumab treated patients experience end of dose interval (edi) symptoms towards the end of the administration cycle. natalizumab has previously shown to influence cytokine profiles in relapsing remitting ms patients. we hypothesize that edi symptoms might be explained by variability in serum cytokine levels during natalizumab treatment.methods: 42 relapsing remitting ms patients were included. participants were evaluated before natalizumab administration (day 0) and 7 days afterwards (day 7). at both time points fatigue, depressed mood and cognition were evaluated using the fatigue severity scale (fss), the visual analogue scale for fatigue (vas-f), the symbol digit modality test (sdmt) and the inventory for depressive symptomatology (ids-sr). serum samples were tested for concentrations of il-6, ifn-γ and tnf-α at both timepoints. on day 7 an additional edi questionnaire was completed. data were analyzed with spss by means of non-parametric tests.results: edi symptoms were reported by 59.5%. although fatigue was most frequently reported, fatigue scales did not significantly change from day 0 to 7 in (fatigued) edi patients. mood and cognition significantly ameliorated in both edi and non-edi patients. cytokines remained stable at day 0 vs 7 except for a significant increase in ifn-γ. on day 0, ifn-γ concentration was positively correlated with a depressed mood in the whole cohort, and with mood and fatigue in the edi group. depressed mood positively whilst cognition negatively correlated with ifn-γ concentration on day 0 in the edi subgroup reporting fatigue. no significant correlations between il-6 nor tnf-α and symptom scores could be found.conclusion: in our study edi symptoms could not be objectified since edi and non-edi groups did not differ in terms of change in mood, cognition and fatigue between day 0 and 7 suggesting that symptom recrudescence could be a subjective experience. although our results need to be interpreted cautiously, we found no clear correlation between studied serum cytokines concentrations and the occurrence of edi symptoms.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
a 22-year-old woman acutely developed recurrent convulsive seizures followed by fever and headache. cerebrospinal fluid study showed leukocytosis without hypoglycorrhachia. these clinical features suggested acute viral or aseptic encephalitis. the patient was treated only with an antiviral agent and improved immediately with good prognosis. afterwards, the characteristic brain mri findings required us to check the patient's serum, and the final diagnosis of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (mog) antibody-positive cerebral cortical encephalitis (cce) was confirmed. most previously reported cases with mog antibody-positive cce clinically showed fever and/or headache, and some were initially misdiagnosed of having central nervous system infection. all previously reported cases were treated with immunotherapy. however, our case showed the very benign clinical course and improved rapidly without any immunotherapy. we should be reminded that mog-antibody-positive cce could be self-remitting and mimic acute viral or aseptic encephalitis. in addition, the characteristic neuroradiological findings could be an important clue to the correct diagnosis of cce.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
enterotoxigenic escherichia coli (etec) f4 causes diarrhea in infants and weaned piglets. the technique of isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (itraq) was used in this study to determine the differentially expressed proteins in porcine intestinal epithelial cells (ipec-j2) after pretreatment with lactobacillus plantarum (lp) followed by challenge with etec f4. a total of 4771 proteins were identified in ipec-j2 cells, with 90, 105, and 134 differentially expressed proteins in cells exposed to etec, lp, and lp + etec, respectively. the cog analysis divided the identified proteins into 20 categories. the go and kegg annotation indicated that most of the differentially expressed proteins were enriched in various biological metabolism including cell cycle control, cell division and differentiation. additionally, western blotting analyses confirmed the reduced abundance of selected proteins of the mtor and mapk signal pathways affected by etec f4. moreover, lp pretreatment increased jnk activation in ipec-j2 cells infected with etec f4. these results may provide further insights into the mechanisms involved in the interaction between etec f4 and intestinal epithelial cells, and broaden the understanding of the protective effects of lp in alleviating etec-provoked diarrhea of piglets.copyright © 2019. published by elsevier b.v.
mir-221 is overexpressed in several malignancies where it promotes tumor growth and survival by interfering with gene transcripts, including p27kip1, puma, pten, and p57kip2. we previously demonstrated that a novel 13-mer mir-221 inhibitor (locked nucleic acid [lna]-i-mir-221) exerts antitumor activity against human cancer with a pilot-favorable pharmacokinetics and safety profile in mice and non-naive monkeys. in this study, we report a non-good laboratory practice (glp)/glp dose-finding investigation of lna-i-mir-221 in sprague-dawley rats. the safety of the intravenous dose (125 mg/kg/day) for 4 consecutive days, two treatment cycles, was investigated by a first non-glp study. the toxicokinetics profile of lna-i-mir-221 was next explored in a glp study at three different doses (5, 12.5, and 125 mg/kg/day). slight changes in blood parameters and histological findings in kidney were observed at the highest dose. these effects were reversible and consistent with an in vivo antisense oligonucleotide (aso) class effect. the no-observed-adverse-effect level (noael) was established at 5 mg/kg/day. the plasma exposure of lna-i-mir-221, based on c0 (estimated concentration at time 0 after bolus intravenous administration) and area under the curve (auc), suggested no differential sex effect. slight accumulation occurred between cycles 1 and 2 but was not observed after four consecutive administrations. taken together, our findings demonstrate a safety profile of lna-i-mir-221 in sprague-dawley rats and provide a reference translational framework and path for the development of other lna mir inhibitors in phase i clinical study.copyright © 2020 the author(s). published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
inflammation and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) are the key events in intimal hyperplasia. this study aimed to explore the mechanism by which long non-coding rna (lncrna) kcnq1ot1 affects vsmc inflammation and proliferation in this context. a vein graft (vg) model was established in mice to introduce intimal hyperplasia. isolated normal vsmcs were induced with platelet-derived growth factor type bb (pdgf-bb), and the cell proliferation, migration, and secretion of inflammatory factors were determined. the results showed that kcnq1ot1 was downregulated in the vsmcs from mice with intimal hyperplasia and in the pdgf-bb-treated vsmcs, and such downregulation of kcnq1ot1 resulted from the increased methylation level in the kcnq1ot1 promoter. overexpressing kcnq1ot1 suppressed pdfg-bb-induced vsmc proliferation, migration, and secretion of inflammatory factors. in vsmcs, kcnq1ot1 bound to the nuclear transcription factor kappa ba (iκba) protein and increased the cellular iκba level by reducing phosphorylation and promoting ubiquitination of the iκba protein. meanwhile, kcnq1ot1 promoted the expression of iκba by sponging mir-221. the effects of kcnq1ot1 knockdown on promoting vsmc proliferation, migration, and secretion of inflammatory factors were abolished by iκba overexpression. the roles of kcnq1ot1 in reducing the intimal area and inhibiting iκba expression were proved in the vg mouse model after kcnq1ot1 overexpression. in conclusion, kcnq1ot1 attenuated intimal hyperplasia by suppressing the inflammation and proliferation of vsmcs, in which the mechanism upregulated iκba expression by binding to the iκba protein and sponging mir-221.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
site-specific delivery of chemotherapeutics specifically to neoplastic hepatocytes without affecting normal hepatocytes should be a focus for potential therapeutic management of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). the aptamer tls 9a with phosphorothioate backbone modifications (l5) has not been explored so far for preferential delivery of therapeutics in neoplastic hepatocytes to induce apoptosis. thus, the objective of the present investigation was to compare the therapeutic potential of l5-functionalized drug nanocarrier (ptx-npl5) with those of the other experimental drug nanocarriers functionalized by previously reported hcc cell-targeting aptamers and non-aptamer ligands, such as galactosamine and apotransferrin. a myriad of well-defined investigations such as cell cycle analysis, tunel (terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling) assay, and studies related to apoptosis, histopathology, and immunoblotting substantiated that ptx-npl5 had the highest potency among the different ligand-attached experimental formulations in inducing selective apoptosis in neoplastic hepatocytes via a mitochondrial-dependent apoptotic pathway. ptx-npl5 did not produce any notable toxic effects in healthy hepatocytes, thus unveiling a new and a safer option in targeted therapy for hcc. molecular modeling study identified two cell-surface biomarker proteins (tumor-associated glycoprotein 72 [tag-72] and heat shock protein 70 [hsp70]) responsible for ligand-receptor interaction of l5 and preferential internalization of ptx-npl5 via clathrin-mediated endocytosis in neoplastic hepatocytes. the potential of ptx-npl5 has provided enough impetus for its rapid translation from the pre-clinical to clinical domain to establish itself as a targeted therapeutic to significantly prolong survival in hcc.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
in the south-tyrol region (italy), 46 gasifiers are currently operating and €200,000 are annually paid to dispose of as a waste 1300 tons of char. therefore, there is a considerable interest in finding alternatives for the valorization of this solid by-product. the aim of this work is to assess the potential of char as energy source and to compare two scenarios. the first scenario considers the possibility of exploiting char in a dedicated burner integrated in the gasification plant. the second scenario assumes that all the char is collected from south-tyrol and co-fired with biomass in an existing combustion-orc plant. an economic analysis was performed evaluating the discounted payback time and both scenarios were modeled using aspen plus®. the results reveal that substantial savings in the operating costs of the plants can be achieved. in the first scenario the owners of the gasification plants could save from 50% to 94% of the char disposal costs with a payback time ranging between 3 and 7 years. in the second scenario, the owner of the plant could save approximately €235 k per year with a payback time of approximately 7 years. the present study provides a basis for further techno-economic studies on char combustion. the results can be helpful for the owners of the gasification plants in determining the most cost-effective way to dispose char and to avoid disposing it of as a waste. furthermore, it is demonstrated how char could be used as a renewable fuel, with better performance than raw biomass.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
the objective of this study was to investigate how addition of high-moisture waste (hmw) affects the hydraulic and mechanical behavior of municipal solid waste (msw). direct shear and hydraulic conductivity tests were conducted on msw, hmw, and msw-hmw mixtures prepared with hmw contents ranging from 20% to 80% (by total mass). direct shear tests were conducted at normal stress between 22 and 168 kpa and hydraulic conductivity tests were conducted at vertical effective stresses of approximately 50, 100, and 200 kpa. a threshold hmw content of 40% was identified corresponding to substantial change in friction angle and hydraulic conductivity of the mixtures. municipal solid waste and msw-hmw mixtures with less than 40% hmw had friction angles between 29° and 32° and hydraulic conductivities greater than or equal to 1.3 × 10-6 m/s. at hmw contents above 40%, the friction angle and hydraulic conductivity decreased with increasing hmw content. at 80% hmw, the hydraulic and mechanical behavior of the msw-hmw mixture was comparable to hmw. the hmw had a friction angle of approximately 2° and hydraulic conductivity of 1.1 × 10-11 m/s at a vertical effective stress of 50 kpa. additional direct shear tests conducted on msw and msw-hmw mixtures soaked in water to simulate subsequent wetting post disposal revealed a decrease in friction angle from approximately 29° to 24° for msw mixed with 40% hmw.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
endocrine disrupting compounds (edcs), pharmaceuticals and personal care products (ppcps) have been of great concern as emerging contaminants of aquatic environment. therefore, there is an urgent need to identify top contaminants so as to allocate better management measures. a list of 77 pharmaceuticals, 20 personal care products (pcps) and 36 edcs that were frequently detected in chinese surface waters was examined in this study. the reported chemicals were concentrated in the highly populated and industrialized areas of china (e.g. the bohai region, yangtze river delta and pearl river delta). the concentrations of edcs and ppcps were closely related to human domestic sewage and industrial wastewater discharge, and they were generally higher than or at least comparable to most of global rivers. based on the proximity between the medians of reported exposure concentrations and effect concentrations, the risk ranking results showed that edcs, e.g. estrone (e1), estriol (e3), 17α-ethynylestradiol (ee2), and pcps, e.g. triclocarban (tcc), triclosan (tcs), were deemed to represent higher risks to aquatic organisms across china, as well as the northern rivers (including the bohai region), yangtze river basin, and pearl river basin. pharmaceuticals posed relatively lower risks to organisms owing to their higher effect concentrations. by comparison, the northern rivers were hotspots where many chemicals were identified as posing greater risks than the yangtze river basin and pearl river basin. fish was the most sensitive taxa to 17β-estradiol (βe2) and ee2, which was almost 100,000 times higher risk than algae and worms. atrazine (atz) and galaxolide (hhcb), posed comparably higher risks to algae and worms. the results of this work provide a sound guidance for future monitoring and management of chemicals in china.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
benzene is a carcinogen. exposure to benzene severely threatens people's health. while its indoor sources such as paint and solvent have been tightly regulated as a result of its inclusion into indoor air standards globally, its outdoor emission from traffic and industry is less addressed. since human's exposure to benzene mainly occurs indoors, how outdoor benzene affects indoor concentrations is a critical issue, but not well discussed yet. this study summarized 118 pairs of outdoor-indoor measurement of benzene concentrations mainly published in the past five years. we found that the outdoor benzene concentrations measured in developing countries exceed 5 μg/m3, an annual concentration limit recommended by europe union, more often than developed ones. it implies a worse benzene pollution situation in the developing places, probably due to strong emission from traffic and industry. the outdoor/indoor concentration ratio is 0.69 and 0.84 for the developing and developed places, respectively. it indicates a significant, if not dominant, role of outdoor benzene in formulating indoor concentrations over indoor sources. controlling outdoor benzene emission is therefore highlighted. actions should be taken to regulate benzene emission sources such as traffic and industry. this is particularly urgent to protect occupants in buildings close to roads and factories.copyright © 2018. published by elsevier b.v.
microplastics (mps) have been recognized as transport vectors for micropollutants in the natural water environment and the food web; therefore, the sorption behavior of contaminant on mps has recently gained an increased attention. however, a consensus has not yet been reached and information about the adsorption of water contaminants on real mps remains elusive. herein, we raise the question of "should we continue using pure polymers as surrogates for real mps?" this first systematic study compared the adsorption of multiple micropollutants (i.e. a pesticide, a pharmaceutical, and perfluoroalkyl substances (pfas)) on a large set of mps (i.e. 20 well-characterized mps) and kaolin. material characterizations results showed various physicochemical and compositional differences between real and pure mps. pure polymers had lower normalized uptake values than real mps in most cases. this was attributed to the surface roughness and/or the presence of fillers (e.g. talc and glass fiber) in real samples. further, preloaded mps with natural organic matter (nom) showed an increased uptake of micropollutants due to forming a complex with nom and/or co-sorption. these findings indicate that employing real mps in research studies is critical for obtaining environmentally meaningful results, and the evaluation of mps sorption behavior without nom preloading can result in a significant underestimation for their actual values. we also provided an outlook the key areas for further investigations.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
in flooded paddy soils, some metal reducers are also capable of nitrogen (n) fixation, which is essential in ensuring a reliable n-supply for rice growth. microbial iron [fe(iii)] reduction is an important biogeochemical process that can be stimulated by ferrihydrite amendment to paddy soil. therefore, this study aimed to investigate the abundance and succession of the n2-fixing bacterial community in ferrihydrite enriched paddy soils collected from hunan (hn) and sichuan (sc) provinces, china. the relationship between the n2-fixing bacterial community and fe(iii) reduction was also assessed. when compared with the control treatment, ferrihydrite enrichment significantly enhanced nitrogenase (nifh) gene abundance by 8.05 × 105 to 4.45 × 106 copies g-1 soil during the 40-day flooding of hn soil, while nifh gene abundance in sc soil was remarkably increased by 5.90 × 107 to 9.56 × 107 copies g-1 soil during day 1 to 5 in response to ferrihydrite amendment. the relative abundance of n2-fixing bacteria peaked on day 5 (21.5% in hn soil and 5.4% in sc soil) and gradually decreased to a stable abundance after day 20. remarkable increases in relative abundance of n2-fixing bacteria during the first 10 days of flooding were detected in both soils with ferrihydrite enrichment, whereas little difference was found after day 10 of flooding. during the early stage of flooding, the shannon and simpson indexes of n2-fixing bacteria with ferrihydrite enrichment were significantly decreased, and the community structure changed greatly. most n2-fixing bacteria in ferrihydrite enriched paddy soils were phylogenetically related to the order clostridiales, with some of those potentially capable of fe(iii) reduction. the community succession of n2-fixing bacteria closely correlated with fe(iii) reduction. thus, improving n2-fixation via stimulation of fe(iii) reduction might aid in the reduction of n-fertilizer application to paddy field.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
constructed wetlands are effective at removing nitrate, one of the major pollutants in aquatic ecosystems. in this study, nitrogen and oxygen isotopes (δ15n and δ18o) were used to determine the sources and transformations of nitrate (no3-), evaluate isotopic fractionation, and estimate nitrogen (n) removal in the xixi wetland, a large semi-constructed wetland in east china. the values of δ15n and δ18o in the xixi wetland ranged from +3.7‰ to +19.0‰ and from +1.1‰ to +13.7‰, respectively. the main no3- sources included sewage/manure, chemical fertiliser and soil nitrogen. anthropogenic sources became more significant in the xixi westland, especially in autumn, as the increased number of tourists resulted in increased sewage/manure input. the results indicated that nitrification and denitrification were the key processes governing n transformations. the monthly variations in the no3- concentrations and δ15n values indicated that denitrification was strong from spring to autumn in the xixi wetland. based on measurements of the natural abundance of δ15n, it was determined that the enrichment factors (ε) of the xixi wetland ranged from -0.7‰ to -1.0‰, and were smaller than those in a laboratory denitrification experiment (-1.6‰). in this study, denitrification, nitrification, and assimilation in plants/microbes were responsible for the low enrichment factors. additionally, the amount of n removal via denitrification varied widely, from 22 kg n·ha-1 yr-1 to 798 kg n·ha-1 yr-1; thus, significant potential for n removal was found in the xixi wetland.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
pseudomonas sp. isolated from soil, are bioremediating microorganisms that are capable of degrading various types of plastics. polyphenylene sulfide (pps) has the most excellent structural stability among general plastics and thus is extremely difficult to break down using physical or chemical methods. this study demonstrates the efficient biodegradation of pps by pseudomonas sp., which exists in the gut of superworms. compared with the conventional film-type of plastic, the degradation efficiencies to the bead form of plastic were significantly improved and thus the biodegradation time was dramatically shortened. therefore, instead of film-type plastics, we used 300 μm diameter plastic beads for the measurement of pseudomonas sp.-mediated biodegradation of pps during a 10-day period. this method not only can be used for comparison and verification of the biodegradation efficiency of different types of plastics within a short reaction time of 10 days, but also provides the possibility to develop a new and more efficient screening system to rapidly identify the most efficient species of bacteria for the biodegradation of various types of plastics.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
the toxic effects of multi-nanomaterial systems are receiving increasing attention owing to their inevitable release of various nanomaterials. knowledge of the bioavailability of the new carbon material ball-milled biochar (bmb) and its synergistic toxicity with metal oxide nanoparticles in bacteria is currently limited. in this study, the interactions of bmb with copper oxide nanoparticles (cuo nps) and their synergistic toxicity towards streptomyces coelicolor m145 were analyzed. results showed that the cytotoxicity, ros level and permeability of cells changed greatly with the pyrolysis temperatures of biochar and the concentrations of cuo nps. the greatest cytotoxicity (up to 63.1%) was achieved by adding 20 mg/l cuo nps to bmb700. the ros level and cell permeability of this treatment was also the highest, about 4.2 folds and 2.9 folds greater than that of control, respectively. the combination of 10 mg/l bmb700 with 10 mg/l cuo nps can maximize production of antibiotics, with the yield of undecylprodigiosin (red) and actinorhodin (act) 3.0 times and 4.2 times higher than that in the control, respectively, and the change trend of related genes was consistent with that of antibiotics production. mechanism analysis showed that the different adsorption capacity of bmb of different pyrolysis temperatures on copper ions played a vital role in the synergistic toxicity, and the increase in cell membrane permeability caused by cell collisions with particles was also an important reason for cytotoxicity. overall, the synergistic toxicity of bmb with other nps varies the pyrolysis temperatures, when considering the synergistic toxicity of these materials, the preparation conditions need to be taken into account so as to assess their environmental risks more accurately. on the other hand, this research may provide a new approach for the antibiotic industry to increase its output.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
the energy-water nexus is a concept widely established but rarely applied to product and, in particular, to food and beverage products, which have a great influence on greenhouse gases emissions. the proposed method considers the main nexus aspects in addition to other relevant aspects such as climate change, which is deeply linked with energy and water systems, and assessing process as well as product. in this framework, this study develops an integrated index (iwecn) that combines life cycle assessment (lca) and linear programming (lp) to assess energetic, water and climate systems, enabling the identification of those products with minors energetic and water intensity and climate change effects and helping to the decision-making process and to the development of eco-innovation measures. in this case, the product assessed was one bottle (70 cl) of gin and two main hotspots were identified: the production of the glass bottle and the energy requirements of the distillation stage. based on that, several eco-innovation strategies were proposed: the use of photovoltaic solar energy as energy source and the substitution of the glass bottle by a plastic one and by a tetra brick. the nexus results indicated that the use of solar photovoltaic energy and plastic as bottle material was the best alternative decreasing 58% the iwecn value of the production of one bottle of gin. the sensitivity analysis presented a strong preference for photovoltaic solar energy in comparison with electric power and for the reduction of the glass bottle weight or its substitution by a plastic bottle. the use of the iwecn index is extendable to any product with the aim of facilitating the decision-making process in the development of more sustainable products to introduce them in new green markets.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
flood risk can be reduced at various stages of the disaster management cycle. traditionally, permanent infrastructure is used for flood prevention, while residual risk is managed with emergency measures that are triggered by forecasts. advances in flood forecasting hold promise for a more prominent role to forecast-based measures. in this study, we present a methodology that compares permanent with forecast-based flood-prevention measures. on the basis of this methodology, we demonstrate how operational decision-makers can select between acting against frequent low-impact, and rare high-impact events. through a hypothetical example, we describe a number of decision scenarios using flood risk indicators for chikwawa, malawi, and modelled and forecasted discharge data from 1997 to 2018. the results indicate that the choice between permanent and temporary measures is affected by the cost of measures, climatological flood risk, and forecast ability to produce accurate flood warnings. temporary measures are likely to be more cost-effective than permanent measures when the probability of flooding is low. furthermore, a combination of the two types of measures can be the most cost-effective solution, particularly when the forecast is more skillful in capturing low-frequency events. finally, we show that action against frequent low-impact events could more cost-effective than action against rare high-impact ones. we conclude that forecast-based measures could be used as an alternative to some of the permanent measures rather than being used only to cover the residual risk, and thus, should be taken into consideration when identifying the optimal flood risk strategy.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
anaerobic digestion (ad) with thermal hydrolysis pretreatment has been attracted widespread attention in recent years due to its high efficiency. however, few studies focus on systematical comparison of the downstream ad processes for thermal hydrolyzed sludge and their corresponding microbial community compositions, especially on those at pilot scale and above. thus, this study systematically compared the long-term performance and microbial communities of two pilot-scale anaerobic reactors for thermal hydrolyzed sludge digestion under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions. the results presented that mesophilic anaerobic digestion (mad) showed a better performance of methane production than thermophilic anaerobic digestion (tad). the hydraulic retention time (hrt) needed to be longer than 12 days in mad while 20 days in tad to achieve the relatively high methane production, which could be explained by that the ammonia nitrogen accumulation especially the free ammonia determined in tad was higher than that in mad at all hrts, emerging an inhibition of methane yield in tad. high-throughput illumina sequencing results demonstrated a more diverse microbial community in mad than that in tad. tad was mediated by a suite of thermophiles, such as coprothermobacter and methanothermobacter, while taxa harbored in mad mostly belonged to bacteroidetes and relatively broad types of methanogens. in addition, hydrogenotrophic methanogens were the predominant of archaea communities in both digesters probably due to the relatively high concentration of ammonia nitrogen.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
short-chain perfluoroalkyl acids (pfaas) have shown a high potential for plant (crop) uptake, making them possibly significant contributors to the total dietary exposure to pfaas. the plant uptake of pfaas is a complex process that needs better characterization, as it does not only depend on perfluoroalkyl chain length, but also on their polar terminal group, on the plant species and the exposure media. here, a plant uptake study with nine perfluoroalkyl acids (pfaas) was carried out under the hydroponic (soilless) exposure conditions. red chicory was grown in a nutrient solution, spiked with pfaas mixture at three different concentrations (i.e. 62.5, 125 and 250 μg/l), in order to extend the range of levels tested and reported in the literature so far. bioaccumulation metrics and transpiration stream concentration factors (tscfs) were employed for the plant uptake characterization and consequent comparison with the results of soil uptake experiment we previously performed with the same crop. the results showed that calculated root concentration factors (rcfs) increase with pfaa chain length, while the opposite chain length dependence was present for shoots. plants from two treatments with the highest pfaas concentrations manifested physiological changes (discoloration, inhibited roots and leaves growth), despite of the used exposure concentrations being much lower than previously published phytotoxicity thresholds. a comparison among rcfs and tscfs derived from hydroponic and from the soil experiment has emphasized their different magnitudes and pfaas chain length dependence patterns. they could not be ascribed only to soil sorption as a process decreasing pfaas bioavailability for plants, but also to developmental differences between the root systems formed in soil and in nutrient solution and to the potential competitive pfaas sorption to roots in hydroponics. the interchangeable use of bioaccumulation and translocation parameters derived in hydroponic and soil systems would lead to erroneous conclusions and plant uptake predictions.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background: social inequalities in survival after cancer diagnosis have been described in several high-income countries, all cancer sites combined and for several specific cancer sites. the objective of this study was to analyze 5-year net survival after cancer diagnosis in a middle-income country (costa rica), according to the characteristics at the district level.methods: costa rican cancer registry is a national population-based registry. all cases diagnosed between january 1, 2011 and december 31, 2015 were included (n = 46,904). deaths that occurred before december 31, 2018 were identified. an ecological study was implemented. the 477 districts were described using the 2011 census. urbanity and wealth was assessed. socioeconomic inequalities in cancer survival were measured using multivariable flexible parametric models. life tables by socio-economic status were used.results: 5-year net survival ranged from 9% for liver cancer to 98 % for in situ cervical cancer. patients living in socioeconomically disadvantaged districts experienced poorer cancer survival at 5 years, after taking into account the inequalities in survival in the general population (hr = 1.23, p < 0.01). this result was robust and was found at 1, 2 and 5 years, in all-cancer combined, and in low-, medium- and high-lethality cancers. there was no difference according to the area, except for low-lethality cancers at 1 year.discussion: despite its universal and solidarity-based health system, costa rica is experiencing social inequalities in survival after cancer diagnosis.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
background: few studies have investigated the possible association between endosalpingiosis and ovarian cancer, therefore we assessed whether there is an association between histological confirmed endosalpingiosis and ovarian cancer.methods: we identified all women with a histological diagnosis of endosalpingiosis between 1990 and 2015 from the dutch nationwide registry of histopathology and cytopathology (palga). we used women with a benign dermal nevus as controls. histology results for cancer of the ovaries, fallopian tubes and peritoneum between january 1990 and july 2017 were retrieved. incidence rate ratios (irr) were estimated for ovarian cancer and its subtypes.results: we found 2490 women with a histological diagnosis of endosalpingiosis, of which 1005 women 40.4 %) had concurrent endometriosis. the age-adjusted irr for ovarian cancer in endosalpingiosis patients (including endometriosis) was 43.7 (95 %ci 35.1-54.3). excluding cases with concurrent endometriosis, resulted in an age-adjusted irr of 38.8 (95 %ci 29.3-50.4). irrs were 2.4 (95 %ci 1.4-3.9) and 1.8 (95 %ci 0.8-4.0) respectively when excluding synchronously diagnosed cases. the increased irrs seem to be caused by an increased risk of clear cell and endometrioid ovarian cancer subtypes.conclusions: this study shows an association between histological diagnosed endosalpingiosis and ovarian cancer. the association with endometrioid and clear cell subtypes seems most outspoken. additionally, this study shows that this association is independent of histological endometriosis diagnosis, making it important for pathologists to report endosalpingiosis accurately and for gynaecologists to be more aware of the increased association of ovarian cancer in women with endosalpingiosis.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier ltd.
objectives: to assess the impact on survival of the total time interval since the first bodily change (sign/symptom) until the start of treatment in symptomatic oral cancer patients.methods: retrospective, hospital-based study designed within the "aarhus statement" conceptual framework, using the overall interval to treatment of 183 oral cancer patients to analyse their survival rates.results: overall time interval (t5): 107.1 ± 85.2 days. overall survival rate: 58.4 (ci: 51.3-66.4%). recurrence time (median): 724 days (iqr, 223-2963.5). median survival time: 1744 days (iqr, 479.5-3438). overall delay (t5) and mortality showed a u-shaped association, where patients with short (24.0-55.5 days) and long t5 intervals (127.5-420 days) had higher mortality than those with medium t5 intervals (55.5-127.5 days).conclusion: there is a non-monotonic association between time interval and mortality. higher mortality rates are linked to shorter and longer time intervals. this may induce underestimation of the association when time intervals are considered dichotomously.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier ltd.
10 primers each of random amplified polymorphic dna (rapd), inter-simple sequence repeats (issr), inter primer binding site (ipbs) and start codon targeted (scot) were used to analyze genetic polymorphism and relationship between 50 genotypes of 5 economical important native bamboos (bambusa cacharensis, b. mizorameana, dendrocalamus manipureanus, d. hamiltonii and d. sikkimensis) of north-east india. the 40 different primers generated 111, 115, 116 and 138 polymorphic bands for rapd, issr, ipbs and scot markers respectively. the comparative analysis of 4 marker systems based on polymorphic information content (pic), effective multiplex ratio (emr) and marker index (mi) values showed scot to be more informative with higher discriminating power than the other three markers. the correlation value (r) as determined by the mantel test ranged from 0.60 (scot and rapd) to 0.83 (ipbs and issr) indicating a high positive correlation between the markers. the close correspondence between the genetic matrices of rapd, issr, ipbs and scot markers revealed the effectiveness of each marker system in determining the genetic relationship between bamboos. upgma (unweighted pair group arithmetic mean method) dendrograms generated from dna marker analysis demonstrated species-specific clustering of different bamboo genotypes. except for rapd, the dendrograms of issr, ipbs and scot markers also showed a close association of bamboo genotypes based on geographical origin. principal coordinate analysis (pcoa) revealed the distribution of different bamboo genotypes in accordance with the cluster analysis. the cluster grouping based on phytochemical study not only discriminated the different bamboo species but also illustrated a location-specific grouping of the genotypes. the bamboo clustering pattern derived from phytochemical analysis matched closely with the dendrograms generated by the dna markers. the present investigation established the possibility of using a combined molecular and phytochemical marker approach to determine the genetic relationship between 5 native bamboos of north-east india with high precision.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
background and purpose: tannic acid (ta), a group of polyphenolic compounds, has multiple anticancer, antimutagenic, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. however, the effects of ta on arsenic trioxide (ato)-induced nephrotoxicity are still relatively unknown. this study investigated the protective effects and potential mechanisms of ta on ato-induced nephrotoxicity in rats.methods: rats were intragastrically administered ta with concurrent ato infused intraperitoneally over 10 days. renal morphology changes were observed through light microscopy. the levels of antioxidants and pro-inflammatory factors were measured in the serum and renal tissue, respectively. further, expression of b-cell lymphoma-2, b-cell lymphoma-extra large, p53, and bcl-2-associated x protein were measured using an immunohistochemical method. the protein expression of nuclear factor kappa b (nf-κb), nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (nrf2), and kelch-like ech-associated protein 1 (keap1) were measured by western blot.results: the data showed that ato exposure significantly increased the serum nephritic, oxidative stress, apoptosis and inflammatory markers in the renal tissue of rats. conversely, pretreatment with ta reversed these changes. furthermore, ta treatment caused a significant decrease in nf-κb expression (p < 0.05), while increasing nrf2 and keap1 expressions (p < 0.05).conclusion: ta ameliorates ato-induced nephrotoxicity, which is related to the inhibition of oxidative stress, inflammation and apoptosis, potentially through the nf-κb/nrf2 pathway.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier masson sas.. all rights reserved.
surface mechanical attrition treatment (smat) of metallic biomaterials has gained significant importance due to its ability to develop nano structure in the surface region. in the present study, the microstructural changes and corrosion behavior of the commercially pure titanium (cp-ti), following different durations of ultrasonic shot peening (ussp) has been investigated. cp-ti was shot peened for different durations from 0 to 120 s and the treated samples were examined for microstructural changes in the surface region, cell viability and corrosion behavior. cell viability was considerably increased after ussp for 60-120 s, exhibiting maximum for the 90 s of ussp. the passivation tendency was also improved with peening duration up to 90 s, however, it declined for longer duration of ussp. the beneficial effects of ussp may be attributed to nano structuring in the surface region and development of higher positive potentials at the ussp treated surface. transmission electron microscope (tem) examination of the ussped surface revealed dislocation entanglement and substructure. also, higher surface volta potential was observed over the ussped sample exhibiting better cell proliferation. the present work is corollary to previous work of the group and mainly discusses the role of ussp duration, as a process parameter, on the cell viability and corrosion resistance of cp-ti.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background: reconstructing pelvic type ii + iii defect caused by bone tumors is challenging. the purpose of this study was to explore the in vitro biomechanical properties of a reconstructed pelvis after periacetabular resection using three-dimensional (3d) printed sacroiliac joint (sij) fixed modular hemipelvic endoprosthesis.methods: type ii/ii + iii pelvic resection was simulated on an artificial pelvic model. the bilateral acetabulum and pubis were constrained, and the pelvis was maintained in a human physiological standing position. a vertically continuous linear load was applied on the upper face of s1 until obvious unloading or fixed failure occurred. a noncontact optical 3d strain measuring system was used to measure the strains and displacements at the selected area.findings: the strain at the points of interest did not obviously differ between the intact and reconstructed pelvis models. the difference in the displacement on the reconstructed side was 0.237 mm, and that on the contralateral side was 0.245 mm. the maximum differences in the displacement at the acetabulum were 0.209 mm (vertical) and 0.324 mm (horizontal). a crack at the superior rim of the contralateral acetabulum occurred, and failure loading of 7.126 kn.interpretation: the prosthesis in this study showed satisfactory mechanical properties and structural stability. according to the mechanical evaluations, the 3d printed sacroiliac-stabilized hemipelvic endoprosthesis can be used to reconstruct a stable acetabular structure, and there was little influence on the mechanical properties of the surrounding bone structures. the prosthesis design is reasonable, and the mechanical distribution on the reconstructed side was similar to that on the contralateral side.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier ltd.
pregnancy toxemia (pt) is considered one of the most common metabolic diseases with high impact on the production of small ruminants. the objective of this study was investigate possible myocardial damage in goats affected with pt by the determination of serum myocardial biomarkers ck-mb and ctni. a total of 44 goats affected with pt, and 10 apparently healthy goats (control group or cg) were used in the study. in goats with pt, the serum concentrations of ctni (0.43 ng/ml) were significantly higher than that in cg goats (0.06 ng/ml). although ck-mb showed no significant difference, it was approximately three times higher in animals with pt. the serum concentrations of insulin were significantly lower in pt goats (5.03 ppmol/l) compared to cg goats (10.66 pmol/l). the serum concentrations of cortisol in pt goats (155.41 nmol/l) were significantly higher than that in cg goats (36.58 nmol/l). results of this study indicate that a clinically significant myocardial damage might occur in goats affected with pt leading to significant elevations in values of ctni and ck-mb. therefore, these parameters could be used as a potential prognostic indicator in goats affected with this important disease.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
context: early detection of cardiovascular disease could make a difference in terms of treatment success. for that reason, it is important to test the reliability of tools used to deliver diagnoses and to measure the impact of external factors such as stressful situations on alterations in the data collected. students are an interesting cohort for investigating the effects of stressful situations, as they have a variable number of stress-causing situations in their daily activity over a short period of time.basic procedure: this investigation used 50 students, each of whom underwent two 21 -h tests involving the measurement of heart rate in beats per minute while they were carrying out their normal daily activities with their own tools. in this case study, we measured the impact of stressful situations with a tool for the self-diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases, using data from students on holiday and during their final exams. we asked the students to select two days on which to use the device and perform the test. the requirements for the days were given to them as follows: for the first test, the students were required to select a day off when their main activity was rest; for the second test, the students were required to select a day in their final exams week that they expected to be the hardest day with the most stressful situations. this paper describes a case study in which we measured the impact of stressful situations with the students' own tools for the self-diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases, using data from students on holiday and during their final exams week. these two datasets, as well as the results of the diagnosis, were compared.main findings: the analysis of the data showed that if the students were healthy, some cardiovascular conditions could change, and some tendencies could be found in the data, unrelated to stress. the addition of stressful situations does not have a direct impact on the diagnosis. thus, we can assume that analysing the data with this methodology and technology will give us an accurate result independent of a person's activities during the test.conclusions: in this sense, and taking into account that the diagnosis was the same in both cases for all the students, we can say that stressful situations don't modify cardiac dynamics, and the diagnosis is useful in all situations. for that reason, the tool is reliable enough to estimate the cardiovascular health of a patient while he or she performs various daily activities by taking advantage of smartphones, commercial heart rate sensors, and iot platforms.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background: evaluation of the accuracy, quality and reliability of written and visual health contents on the internet by healthcare professionals.aims: the objective of this study was to evaluate gastroesophageal reflux health contents in google search engine and videos on youtube, in terms of quality, actuality, treatment diversity, accuracy and reliability.methods: a total of 77 youtube videos and 57 google contents related to gastroesophageal reflux disease were included in the study. the contents were assessed by two independent reviewers. quality of the content included in this study was evaluated using discern, which is commonly used for the assessment of health information on the internet, jama and video power index scores.results: among youtube videos; 44.7 % (n = 34) were uploaded by experts, 44.7 % (n = 34) by non-experts, 9.0 % (n = 7) by media and 2.7 % (n = 2) by academic institutions, while 10.5 % (n = 6) of the google contents were uploaded by experts, 59.6 % (n = 34) by non-experts and 22.4 % (n = 17) by academic institutions. the mean total discern score (5-80 points) of reflux related youtube was found as 37.2 ± 16.5. the mean total discern scores of the evaluated google contents was found as 42.1 ± 15.6. the mean jama score (0-4 points) was found as 2 ± 0.9 for youtube videos and 2 ± 0.9 for google contents. there was a strong correlation between all scores given by the two reviewers.conclusions: overall quality of youtube videos and google contents about reflux was low. healthcare professionals and organizations should be encouraged to provide more beneficial material and animated videos to people who seek reliable information on the internet.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
recently it was demonstrated that mealworm (tenebrio molitor) larvae consume and biodegrade polystyrene. thus, in this study a breeding investigation with various types of polystyrene was performed to follow the changes in the gut microbiome diversity. polystyrene used for packaging purposes (psp) and expanded polystyrene (eps) were perceived as more favorable and attacked more frequently by mealworms compared to raw polystyrene (ps) and material commercially available for parcels (psp). although our studies showed that larvae could bite and chew selected materials, they are not able to degrade and use them for consumption purposes. in a next-generation sequencing experiment, among all samples, seven classes, gammaproteobacteria, bacilli, clostridia, acidobacteria, actinobacteria, alphaproteobacteria and flavobacteria, were indicated as the most abundant, whereas the predominant genera were enterobacter, lactococcus and enterococcus. additionally, we isolated three bacteria strains able to use diverse types of bioplastic as a sole carbon source. the strains with biodegradable activity against bioplastic were identified as species of the genera klebsiella, pseudomonas and serratia. the presence of a bacterial strain able to degrade bioplastic may suggest a potential niche for further investigations.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier ltd.. all rights reserved.
emissions of major reactive nitrogen compounds, including nitric oxide (no), nitrogen dioxide (no2) and ammonia (nh3), from heavy-duty diesel vehicles (hddvs) place substantial pressure on air quality for many large cities in china. to control nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions from hddvs, selective catalytic reduction (scr) systems have been widely used since the china iv standards. to investigate the impacts of aftertreatment technologies and driving conditions on real-world emissions of reactive nitrogen compounds, a portable emissions measurement system was employed to test eighteen heavy-duty diesel trucks in china. the results showed that the china iv and china v hddvs with appropriate scr functionality could reduce nox emissions by 36% and 53%, respectively, compared to the china iii results, although their real-world emissions were still higher than the corresponding emission limits for regulatory engine tests. for these hddvs, five samples were tested with nh3 emissions, ranging from 1.67 ppm to 51.49 ppm. the nh3 emission rates tended to significantly increase under high-speed driving conditions. the results indicate that the current scr technology may have certain risks in exceeding the future china vi nh3 limit. however, five china iv/v hddvs were found to have scr temperature sensors that were intentionally tampered with, resulting in comparable or even higher nox emissions and zero nh3 emissions. increased no2 emissions due to the adoption of diesel oxidation catalysts and diesel particulate filters were also found from our experiments. this study highlights the importance of enhancing in-use compliance requirements and eliminating aftertreatment tampering for china iv and china v hddvs.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
exposure to atmospheric particulate matter (pm) has been related to the increasing incidence and mortality of pulmonary diseases, where micrornas (mirnas) play significant roles in these biological and pathological processes. in the present study, we found that mir-382-5p played an anti-inflammatory role in pulmonary inflammation induced by fine particulate matter (pm2.5) or diesel exhaust particles (deps) in vitro and in vivo. the expression level of mir-382-5p was downregulated, while its target gene, namely cxcl12, was elevated in hbe cells after exposure to pm2.5 or deps. mechanistically, pm2.5 or deps exposure increased cxcl12/mmp9 expression via mir-382-5p inhibition, subsequently triggered pulmonary inflammation. furthermore, antagonizing the function of cxcl12 significantly reduced the expression of mmp9 and local inflammation induced by pm2.5 or deps. pm2.5 or deps caused apoptosis and g1 phase arrest could be partially restored by overexpression of mir-382-5p and antagonism of cxcl12. in a murine model, enhanced mir-382-5p expression effectively reduced expression levels of cxcl12, mmp9 and inflammatory cytokines, hereby protected lung tissues against pm2.5 or deps-induced lesions. collectively, the mir-382-5p/cxcl12/mmp9 pathway may provide a mechanism, which mediates inflammatory response to pm2.5 or deps exposure.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
the pollution of aquatic bodies by pharmaceutical compounds is an emerging environmental problem, with little explored consequences. oxytetracycline (otc) is an antibiotic used for treatment of infections caused by a variety of microorganisms and it is widely employed in medicine, livestock husbandry and aquaculture. this pharmaceutical compound may cause deleterious effects on non-target aquatic organisms as microalgae. the objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of otc on growth, pigment content and morpho-physiology of the microalga isochrysis galbana parke. the results highlighted that otc exposure inhibited the growth of i. galbana in cultures treated with otc 5.0 and 10.0 mg/l after 3 days and in cultures treated with otc 5.0, 7.5 and 10.0 mg/l after 5 days. effects of otc on cells ultrastructure and physiology consisted in large cytoplasmic lipid inclusions and in a decrease of photosynthetic pigments amount.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
pm2.5 pollution is caused by multiple factors and determining how these factors affect pm2.5 pollution is important for haze control. in this study, we modified the geographically weighted regression (gwr) model and investigated the relationships between pm2.5 and its influencing factors. experiments covering 368 cities and 9 urban agglomerations were conducted in china in 2015 and more than 20 factors were considered. the modified gwr coefficients (mgcs) were calculated for six variables, including two emission factors (so2 and no2 concentrations), two meteorological factors (relative humidity and lifted index), and two topographical factors (woodland percentage and elevation). then the spatial distribution of mgcs was analyzed at city, cluster, and region scales. results showed that the relationships between pm2.5 and the different factors varied with location. so2 emission positively affected pm2.5, and the impact was the strongest in the beijing-tianjin-hebei (bth) region. the impact of no2 was generally smaller than that of so2 and could be important in coastal areas. the impact of meteorological factors on pm2.5 was complicated in terms of spatial variations, with relative humidity and lifted index exerting a strong positive impact on pm2.5 in pearl river delta and central china, respectively. woodland percentage mainly influenced pm2.5 in regions of or near deserts, and elevation was important in bth and sichuan. the findings of this study can improve our understanding of haze formation and provide useful information for policy-making.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
communities in low-income and middle-income countries (lmic) are disproportionally affected by industrial pollution compared to more developed nations. this study evaluates the dispersal and associated health risk of contaminant-laden soil and dust at a copper (cu) smelter in tsumeb, namibia. it is africa's only smelter capable of treating complex cu ores that contain high arsenic (as) contents (<1%). the analyses focused on the primary trace elements associated with ore processing at the smelter: as, cu, and lead (pb). portable x-ray fluorescence spectrometry (pxrf) of trace elements in soils (n = 83) and surface dust wipes (n = 80) showed that elemental contamination was spatially associated with proximity to smelter operations. soil concentrations were below us epa soil guidelines. dust wipe values were elevated relative to sites distal from the facility and similar to those at other international smelter locations (as = 1012 μg/m2 (95% ci 687-1337); cu = 1838 μg/m2 (95% ci 1191-2485); pb = 1624 μg/m2 (95% ci 862-2385)). source apportionment for pb contamination was assessed using pb isotopic compositions (pbic) of dust wipes (n = 22). these data revealed that the pbic of 73% (n = 16/22) of these wipes corresponded to the pbic of smelter slag and tailings, indicating contribution from industrial emissions to ongoing exposure risk. modeling of carcinogenic risk showed that dust ingestion was the most important pathway, followed by inhalation, for both adults and children. dermal contact to trace elements in dust was also determined to pose a carcinogenic risk for children, but not adults. consequently, contemporary smelter operations remain an ongoing health risk to the surrounding community, in spite of recent efforts to improve emissions from the operations.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
exposure to air pollution has been linked to elevated blood pressure (bp) and hypertension, but most research has focused on short-term (hours, days, or months) exposures at relatively low concentrations. we examined the associations between long-term (3-year average) concentrations of outdoor pm2.5 and household air pollution (hap) from cooking with solid fuels with bp and hypertension in the prospective urban and rural epidemiology (pure) study. outdoor pm2.5 exposures were estimated at year of enrollment for 137,809 adults aged 35-70 years from 640 urban and rural communities in 21 countries using satellite and ground-based methods. primary use of solid fuel for cooking was used as an indicator of hap exposure, with analyses restricted to rural participants (n = 43,313) in 27 study centers in 10 countries. bp was measured following a standardized procedure and associations with air pollution examined with mixed-effect regression models, after adjustment for a comprehensive set of potential confounding factors. baseline outdoor pm2.5 exposure ranged from 3 to 97 μg/m3 across study communities and was associated with an increased odds ratio (or) of 1.04 (95% ci: 1.01, 1.07) for hypertension, per 10 μg/m3 increase in concentration. this association demonstrated non-linearity and was strongest for the fourth (pm2.5 > 62 μg/m3) compared to the first (pm2.5 < 14 μg/m3) quartiles (or = 1.36, 95% ci: 1.10, 1.69). similar non-linear patterns were observed for systolic bp (β = 2.15 mmhg, 95% ci: -0.59, 4.89) and diastolic bp (β = 1.35, 95% ci: -0.20, 2.89), while there was no overall increase in ors across the full exposure distribution. individuals who used solid fuels for cooking had lower bp measures compared to clean fuel users (e.g. 34% of solid fuels users compared to 42% of clean fuel users had hypertension), and even in fully adjusted models had slightly decreased odds of hypertension (or = 0.93; 95% ci: 0.88, 0.99) and reductions in systolic (-0.51 mmhg; 95% ci: -0.99, -0.03) and diastolic (-0.46 mmhg; 95% ci: -0.75, -0.18) bp. in this large international multi-center study, chronic exposures to outdoor pm2.5 was associated with increased bp and hypertension while there were small inverse associations with hap.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
benzotriazole ultraviolet stabilizers (buvss) are widely used additives in industrial materials and personal care products that protect products from ultraviolet damage. due to their high production volume and potential to bioaccumulate, buvss are an environmental pollutant of concern. in this study, juvenile zebrafish (danio rerio) were exposed to 4 buvss (uv-234, uv-326, uv-329, and uv-p) at 10 and 100 μg/l for 28 d. buvss induced hepatic vacuolization and nuclei pyknosis in the liver following 100 μg/l uv-234 and uv-329 exposure. transcriptomic analysis in the liver uncovered pathways related to inflammation that were affected by buvss. based upon these data, we measured the expression levels of 9 genes involved in ahr-il17/il22 pathway in zebrafish larvae exposed to each buvss at one dose of either 10 or 100 μg/l for 6 days in a second set experiment. transcript levels of interleukins il17a and il22 were decreased, while il6 mrna was increased with exposure to uv-234, uv-329, and uv-p. no change to targeted transcripts was observed with uv-326 treatments. moreover, cyp1a1 and ahr2 levels were increased in larvae treated with 100 μg/l uv-329 or uv-p. consistent with expression data, protein abundance of il22 was decreased by 29% with exposure to 100 μg/l uv-p. taken together, these results demonstrate that exposure to different benzotriazole congeners may be associated with immunotoxicity in zebrafish through the ahr-il17/il22 pathway, and this may be associated with hepatic damage with prolonged exposures. this study provides new insight into unique pathways perturbed by specific buvss congeners.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
pterois volitans venom induces muscular fibrillation, which results from nerve transmission caused by the presence of acetylcholine (ach). it also has cardiovascular effects that are due to its actions on muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic receptors. in this study, we characterized the effects of p. volitans venom on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nachrs) and dopaminergic neurons. after exposure to p. volitans venom, acetylcholinesterase (ache) mrna levels and the expression of the α2 subunit of nachr increased in zebrafish embryos (15-20 somites). in addition, the lionfish venom blocked zebrafish α2 nachr subunit functional expression and the ach-induced response of human neuronal α3β2 receptors. the latter receptor was blocked by a protein fraction named f2, which was isolated from p. volitans venom using reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography (rp-hplc). this venom causes death in dopaminergic neurons, and affects the cholinergic system. the effect of these two systems may result in retarded embryonic development of zebrafish, since the two systems function in a related manner to control growth hormone secretion.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
triazine herbicide atrazine is considered to be moderately toxic to various aquatic animals. the aim of our study was to evaluate the acute embryotoxicity of atrazine and its two degradation products, desisopropylatrazine and desethylatrazine, and their mixture to the early life stages of zebrafish (danio rerio) by means of a modified method of the fish embryo acute toxicity (fet) test - oecd guideline 236. toxic effects were studied by the evaluation of lethal endpoints and development of disorders. furthermore, sublethal endpoints such as hatching rate, formation of somites, development of eyes, spontaneous movement, heartbeat, blood circulation, pigmentation and occurrence of edema at 24, 48, 72 and 96 h post fertilization were assessed. newly fertilized eggs were exposed to various concentrations of atrazine, desisopropylatrazine and desethylatrazine, and their combination 0.3, 30, 100, 300, 1000, 3,000 and 10,000 μg/l, which represent environmentally relevant levels of these pollutants in surface waters and multiples of these concentrations to find out if the toxic effect depends on dose. single substances and their combination were not associated with a negative effect on mortality. rare malformations were observed during these embryonal toxicity tests. only pericardial edema was recorded during the monitored observation. a significant increase in the occurrence of pericardial edema between the control 0% and the experimental group 17.6 %) was found only in the group exposed to the highest concentration of a triazine herbicide combination (10,000 μg/l) at 72 and 96 h post fertilization. obtained results indicate that especially higher not environmentally relevant concentrations of atrazine, its metabolites or their combination present a potencial risk of embryotoxicity for zebrafish.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
introduction: injection drug use (idu) remains a significant public health problem. idu has been associated closely with the opioid crisis; driving overdose, hiv, and hepatitis c (hcv) infection nationwide. syringe services programs (ssps) remain pivotal evidence-based interventions to reduce harm and engage subgroups of people who inject drugs (pwid). this study aims to provide policy considerations from the idea ssp, the first legal ssp in the state of florida.methods: we performed a latent class analysis on patterns of substance use among participants (n = 982) newly enrolled in a syringe services program (ssp). associations between classes of substance use and sociodemographic variables, risky injection and sex behaviors, hiv/hcv status and syringe coverage were analyzed using the r3step and bch 3-step procedures in latent class regression.results: we found a three-class solution: heroin-dominant class (73.9%), methamphetamine-dominant class (9.5%) and heroin/cocaine class (16.6%). compared to heroin-dominant class, the heroin/cocaine class were more likely to report homelessness, sharing works, unprotected sex, public injection, and to be hcv positive. compared to both heroin-dominant and heroin/cocaine classes, the methamphetamine-dominant class were more likely to be male, hispanic, gay or bisexual orientation, hiv positive, to report unprotected sex and sex with pwid. in addition, the lowest and highest syringe coverage were among those in the heroin/cocaine and methamphetamine-dominant classes, respectively.conclusion: existing interventions among this population to mitigate infectious disease risk, such as ssps, can be a used to engage differing pwid populations. however, multi-component, targeted preventive interventions and need-based syringe distribution policies are required to further reduce hiv and hcv risk among various pwid populations.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
purpose: to investigate the effective dose (e) and convolution kernel's effects on the detection of pulmonary nodules in different artificial intelligence (ai) software systems.methods: simulated nodules of various sizes and densities in the lungman phantom were ct scanned at different levels of e (3 - 5, 1 - 3, 0.5 - 1, and <0.5 msv) and were reconstructed with different kernels (b30f, b60f, and b80f). the number of nodules and corresponding volumes in different images were detected by four ai software systems (a, b, c, and d). sensitivity, false positives (fps), false negatives (fns), and relative volume error (rve) were calculated and compared to the aspects of the e and convolution kernel.results: system b had the highest median sensitivity (100 %). the median fps of systems b (1) and d (1) was lower than a (11.5) and c (5). system d had the smallest rve (13.12 %). when the e was <0.5 msv, system d's sensitivity decreased, while the fps and fns of systems a and b increased significantly (p < 0.05). when the kernel was changed from b80f to b30f, the fps of system a decreased, while that of system c increased, and the rve of systems a, b, and c increased (p < 0.05).conclusion: ai software systems b and d have high detection efficiency under normal or low dose conditions and show better stability. however, the detection efficiency of systems a and c would be affected by the e or convolution kernel, but the e would not affect the volume measurement of four systems.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
purpose: portal venous pressure (pvp) measurement is of clinical significance, especially in patients with portal hypertension. however, the invasive nature and associated complications limits its application. the aim of the study is to propose a noninvasive predictive model of pvp values based on ct-extracted radiomic features.methods: radiomics pvp (rpvp) models based on liver, spleen and combined features were established on an experimental cohort of 169 subjects. radiomics features were extracted from each roi and reduced via the lasso regression to achieve an optimal predictive formula. a validation cohort of 62 patients treated for gastroesophageal varices (gov) was used to confirm the utility of rpvp in predicting variceal recurrence. the association between rpvp and response to treatment was observed.results: three separate predictive formula for pvp were derived from radiomics features. rpvp was significantly correlated to patient response to endoscopic treatment for gov. among which, the model containing both liver and spleen features has the highest predictability of variceal recurrence, with an optimal cut-off value at 29.102 mmhg (auc 0.866). a kaplan meier analysis further confirmed the difference between patients with varying rpvp values.conclusion: pvp values can be accurately predicted by a non-invasive, ct derived radiomics model. rpvp serves as a non-invasive and precise reference for predicting treatment outcome for gov secondary to portal hypertension.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
purpose: tumor consistency is a critical factor in surgical planning that influences ease of resection and risk of operative morbidity. the ability of mri to predict tumor consistency tumor consistency has been shown to increase with higher field strength. the present study examined the utility of 7 t (7 t) mri in predicting the tumor consistency of pituitary adenomas.method: fifteen patients with pituitary adenomas were preoperatively scanned at 7 t mri. regions of interest were drawn around lesions for voxel-based signal intensity (si) analysis. the percentage of tumor voxels with intensity higher than local gray matter was calculated on t2-weighted imaging. a single neurosurgeon rated tumor firmness for all patients. histopathological analysis was performed. radiological tumor features were correlated with intraoperative tumor consistency measurements and histopathology.results: tumors rated as 'soft' intraoperatively were hyperintense to local gray matter on t2-weighted imaging. 'firm' tumors were hypointense to local gray matter. there was no significant difference in si ratio between soft and firm tumors (p = 0.098). soft tumors had a significantly higher percentage of tumor voxels greater than local gray matter compared to firm tumors (p = 0.035, cohen's d-effect size = 1.208). soft tumors had higher vascularity than firm tumors, p = 0.015.conclusions: the signal and contrast advantage conferred by 7 t mri may provide valuable preoperative information regarding pituitary tumor consistency and physiology. the use of granular, voxel-based analysis maximizes the potential afforded by the high resolution of 7 t imaging, and may be a valuable method of predicting consistency of pituitary adenoma.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
objective: nicotine, a toxic component of smoking, adversely affects animal growth and reproduction by decreasing secretion of anterior pituitary hormones. however, it has not been clarified whether nicotine inhibits the supply of endocrine cells in the pituitary gland. the present study investigated short- and long-term effects of persistent nicotine exposure on the pituitary glands of young animals.design: three-week-old male wistar rats were exposed to nicotine (1 mg/kg body weight/day) for 7 days, and gene expression, cell numbers, and dna methylation status were analyzed on the following day and 4 weeks after final treatments.results: the expression level of the stem cell marker sox2 was not changed by nicotine exposure throughout the experiment. on the other hand, nicotine inhibited expression of a progenitor cell marker, prrx1, and growth hormone (gh). immunohistochemical analysis showed that the sox2-positive cells positive for prrx1 in nicotine-treated groups decreased to 61% (4-week-old) and 70% (8-week-old) of the saline-treated controls. in addition, the proportion of gh-positive cells in nicotine-treated group was 14% lower than that of saline-treated controls. furthermore, first intron hypermethylation of prrx1 was detected by a bisulfite sequence of genomic dna from the anterior lobe of the rat pituitary gland.conclusions: we show that persistent nicotine exposure in young animals inhibits expression of prrx1 in pituitary stem/progenitor cells through epigenetic regulation, leading to a delayed supply of gh-producing cells.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
background: acute pancreatitis is a serious condition with multi-factorial etiology. the negative impact of acute pancreatitis on the exocrine pancreatic function is well documented; however, its impact on the endocrine function needs more elucidation. our study aimed to investigate the effect of nano-selenium (nano-se) on both pancreatic functions in acute pancreatitis.methods: l-arginine induced acute pancreatitis in rats was used as a model. fifty adult male albino rats were separated into groups: 1- control group (c), 2- c+ nano-se, 3-acute pancreatitis group (ap) and 4- ap+ nano-se. nano-se was administered before induction of acute pancreatitis. serum levels of amylase, lipase, selenium, glucose, insulin and interleukin-1β (il-1β) were measured. homeostatic model assessment of beta cell function (homa-β) was also calculated. oxidative stress markers, selenium content and the anti-apoptotic factor, b-cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 (bcl-2) were assayed in pancreatic tissue along with immuno-expression of nuclear transcription factor-kappa b (nf-κb).results: acute pancreatitis negatively affected both pancreatic functions. nano-se administration lessened the developed pancreatic injury and improved both pancreatic functions.conclusion: nano-se could improve the deteriorated pancreatic functions in acute pancreatitis via its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and pro-apoptotic actions. thus, it may be used in prevention of acute pancreatitis and the associated hyperglycemia in vulnerable individuals such as patients undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography.copyright © 2020 elsevier gmbh. all rights reserved.
alkali metals (ams) and alkali earth metals (aems) affect levels and signaling of neurotransmitters, which potentially play a role in the etiology of schizophrenia (scz). the current case-control study aims to explore how ams [i.e. potassium (k), sodium (na), rubidium (rb), cesium (cs)] and aems [i.e. magnesium (mg), calcium (ca), strontium (sr), barium (ba)] in serum could associate with scz. one hundred and five inpatients with scz and 106 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (hcs) were recruited from weifang, china. inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (icp-aes) was used to evaluate serum concentrations of na, k, ca, mg and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (icp-ms) was for rb, cs, sr, ba. subjects with scz had significantly higher mg and sr serum concentrations than hcs (20.86 vs. 19.73 μg/ml of mg, p < 0.001; 53.14 vs. 42.26 ng/ml of sr, p < 0.001). after adjusting for confounders, the odds ratio of mg and sr remain significantly higher in the scz group (mg: or = 2.538, 95 % ci: 1.254-5.136, p=0.010; sr: or = 3.798, 95 % ci: 1.769-8.153, p = 0.001). no significant differences between scz subjects and hcs were observed for other ams and aems. higher serum concentrations of mg and sr were associated with scz. studies are suggested to find the related mechanisms and provide clues for pathogenesis of scz, which would impact prevention and treatments of scz.copyright © 2020 elsevier gmbh. all rights reserved.
objective: to analyze the relationship between environmental lead exposure and various types of brain tumors.methods: search databases pubmed, web of science, embase and chinese national knowledge infrastructure (cnki) as of july 1, 2019. stata 15.0 software was used for analysis.results: in the case control, lead exposure was associated with gliomas and meningiomas 0.82 (95 % ci: 0.69, 0.95) and 1.06 (95 % ci: 0.65, 1.46). in the cohort study, lead exposure was associated with brain cancer and meningiomas 1.07 (95 % ci: 0.95, 1.19) and 1.06 (95 % ci: 0.94, 1.17). the risk of childhood brain tumors associated with parental lead exposure was 1.17 (95 % ci: 0.99, 1.34).conclusions: lead may be a risk factor for meningiomas and brain cancers. however, the glioma results suggest that lead may be a protective factor, which needs to be further studied.copyright © 2020 elsevier gmbh. all rights reserved.
purpose: the purpose of the study was to examine different aspects of well-being in mothers with epilepsy with school-aged children.methods: in an observational study, mothers, identified from the european registry of antiepileptic drugs and pregnancy database in the netherlands, completed questions on epilepsy, the impact of epilepsy on daily functioning, quality of life, behavioral problems, and parenting stress. descriptive analyses were performed to examine the prevalence of behavioral problems and the impact of epilepsy on different aspects of the mother's daily functioning and family life. we subsequently investigated which factors contributed most to the impact of maternal epilepsy using regression analyses.results: one hundred fifty-six (46%) of the 342 invited mothers with epilepsy participated. the majority (89%) had low epilepsy severity, with well-controlled seizures. internalizing problems within the borderline or clinical range were reported by 23% of the mothers. behavioral problems were significantly correlated with epilepsy severity (r = 0.26, p = .002), impact of epilepsy on daily functioning (r = 0.32, p < .001), and quality of life (r = -0.52, p < 01). quality of life was in general good (mean = 8, standard deviation [sd] = 1), with low impact of epilepsy. epilepsy affected mostly maternal self-confidence, work, and general health. mothers indicated to experience no to little impact of epilepsy on the relationship with their children, partner, or family. regression analyses showed that epilepsy severity (1.0, 95% confidence interval [ci]: 0.4 to 1.6; p = .002) and quality of life (-1.3, ci: -2.3 to -0.4; p = .007) were significant contributors to the impact of epilepsy on daily functioning, while other factors (maternal education, family type, behavioral problems, and parenting stress) were nonsignificant.discussion: the current study shows that mothers with epilepsy generally fared well. epilepsy negatively impacted the lives of some mothers, though. as maternal well-being is of importance for mother-child interaction and child development, clinicians should be aware of the impact of epilepsy on maternal psychosocial outcomes and family life of women with epilepsy.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier inc.
background: many evidence-based prevention and intervention approaches for youth mental health exist, but most are time-consuming and expensive to deliver. innovative approaches are needed to develop and disseminate scalable mental health interventions, especially for youth in low- and middle-income countries. computerized single-session interventions (ssis) may be able to overcome many of these implementation barriers, especially if deployed in school settings.methods: guided by this logic, we designed three computerized ssis (based on behavioral activation, gratitude, and growth mindset exercises) for delivery in indian high schools. then, we conducted focus groups with indian adolescents and school officials to inform adaptations of the interventions. finally, we designed a hybrid type 1 effectiveness-implementation study to evaluate the interventions.results: in this paper, we present the rationale for selecting the interventions, the results of the focus groups, and the design of a hybrid type 1 effectiveness-implementation study. our initial focus group data showed that the interventions were considered acceptable, feasible, and appropriate by both educators and students. we also describe feedback on the interventions which we incorporated to refine the interventions prior to our randomized controlled trial.discussion: computerized ssis may offer innovative, scalable ways to disseminate evidence-based interventions. by identifying which interventions are most acceptable and effective in this highly scalable format, we may understand which ssis are best suited for continued development, testing, and, ultimately, widespread dissemination.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
existing techniques for the preparation of silica structures from diatom cells include cleaning of frustules through baking at high temperature and oxidant cleaning using concentrated sulfuric acid, hydrogen peroxide, nitric acid, or sodium dodecyl sulfate (sds)/ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (edta). in this study, sono-fenton (sf) process was examined to prepare nanoporous silica through cleaning diatom frustules, while preserving their structural features. single colonies of cyclotella sp. were cultivated in batch mode f/2-enriched seawater. combination of fenton process with ultrasonication was found to be more efficient than the sum of individual processes in the removal of organic compounds from cyclotella sp. structure. the optimized amounts of operational parameters were determined as suspension ph of 3, diatom cell density of 4.8 × 105 cell ml-1, h2o2 concentration of 60 mm, fe2+ concentration of 15 mm, ultrasound irradiation power of 400 w and the temperature of 45 °c. the results of energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (edx) and thermal gravimetry (tg) analyses proved that organic materials covering the cell wall were significantly removed from the frustules through sf process. scanning electron microscopy (sem) images showed that after sf treatment, silica nanostructures were produced having uniform pores less than 15 nm in diameter. n2 adsorption-desorption isotherms demonstrated that almost non-porous structure of diatom frustules became mesoporous during removing the organic matrix. lipids, amino acids, carbohydrates and organic acids or their oxidized products were identified using gc-ms analysis as the main organic compounds released from diatom cells to the solution after sf treatment. treated frustules exhibited adsorption capability of 91.2 mg/g for methylene blue, which was almost 2.5 times higher than that of untreated frustules (34.8 mg/g).copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
polyketides produced by modular polyketide synthases (pkss) are important small molecules widely used as drugs, pesticides, and biological probes. tagging these polyketides with a clickable functionality enables the visualization, diversification, and mode of action study through bio-orthogonal chemistry. we report the de novo biosynthesis of alkyne-tagged polyketides by modular type i pkss through starter unit engineering. specifically, we use jamabc, a terminal alkyne biosynthetic machinery from the jamaicamide b biosynthetic pathway, in combination with representative modular pkss. we demonstrate that jamabc works as a trans loading system for engineered type i pkss to produce alkyne-tagged polyketides. in addition, the production efficiency can be improved by enhancing the interactions between the carrier protein (jamc) and pkss using docking domains and site-directed mutagenesis of jamc. this work thus provides engineering guidelines and strategies that are applicable to additional modular type i pkss to produce targeted alkyne-tagged metabolites for chemical and biological applications.copyright © 2020 the author(s). published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
stroke survivors are known to suffer from post-stroke depression (psd). however, the likelihood of structural changes in the brains of psd patients has not been explored. this study aims to extract changes in the gray matter of these patients and test how these changes account for the psd symptoms. high-resolution t1 weighted images were collected from 23 psd patients diagnosed with subcortical stroke. voxel-based morphometry and support vector machine analyses were used to analyze the data. the results were compared with those collected from 33 non-psd patients. psd group showed decreased gray matter volume (gmv) in the left middle frontal gyrus (mfg) when compared to the non-psd patients. together with the clinical and demographic variables, the mfg's gmv predictive model was able to distinguish psd from the non-psd patients (0•70 sensitivity and 0•88 specificity). the changes in the left inferior frontal gyrus (61%) and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (39%) suggest that the somatic/affective symptoms in psd is likely to be due to patients' problems with understanding and appraising negative emotional stimuli. the impact brought by the reduced prefrontal to limbic system connectivity needs further exploration. these findings indicate possible systemic involvement of the frontolimbic network resulting in psd after brain lesions which is likely to be independent from the location of the lesion. the results inform specific clinical interventions to be provided for treating depressive symptoms in post-stroke patients.copyright © 2020 the author(s). published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
schizophrenia is believed to be a neurodevelopmental disease with high heritability. differential diagnosis is often challenging, especially in early phases, namely with other psychotic disorders or even mood disorders. such as bipolar disorder with psychotic symptoms. key pathophysiological changes separating these two classical psychoses remain poorly understood, and current evidence favors a more dimensional than categorical differentiation between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. while established biomarkers like cortical thickness and grey matter volume are heavily influenced by post-onset changes and thus provide limited possibility of accessing early pathologies, gyrification is assumed to be more specifically determined by genetic and early developmental factors. the aim of our study was to compare both classical and novel morphometric features in these two archetypal psychiatric disorders. we included 20 schizophrenia patients, 20 bipolar disorder patients and 20 age- and gender-matched healthy controls. data analyses were performed with cat12/spm12 applying general linear models for four morphometric measures: gyrification and cortical thickness (surface-based morphometry), and whole-brain grey matter/grey matter volume (voxel-based morphometry - vbm). group effects were tested using age and gender as covariates (and total intracranial volume for vbm). voxel-based morphometry analysis revealed a schizophrenia vs. control group effect on regional grey matter volume (p < 0.05, familywise error correction) in the right globus pallidus. there was no group effect on white matter volume when correcting for multiple comparisons neither on cortical thickness. gyrification changes in clinical samples were found in the left supramarginal gyrus (ba40) - increased and reduced gyrification, respectively, in bpd and scz patients - and in the right inferior frontal gyrus (ba47), with a reduction in gyrification of the scz group when compared with controls. the joint analysis of different morphometric features, namely measures such as gyrification, provides a promising strategy for the elucidation of distinct phenotypes in psychiatric disorders. different morphological change patterns, highlighting specific disease trajectories, could potentially generate neuroimaging-derived biomarkers, helping to discriminate schizophrenia from bipolar disorder in early phases, such as first-episode psychosis patients.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
purpose: previous imaging studies in patients with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (tle) have examined the spatial distribution of changes in imaging parameters such as diffusion tensor imaging (dti) metrics and cortical thickness. multi-compartment models offer greater specificity with parameters more directly related to known changes in tle such as altered neuronal density and myelination. we studied the spatial distribution of conventional and novel metrics including neurite density derived from noddi (neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging) and myelin water fraction (mwf) derived from mcdespot (multi-compartment driven equilibrium single pulse observation of t1/t2)] to infer the underlying neurobiology of changes in conventional metrics.methods: 20 patients with tle and 20 matched controls underwent magnetic resonance imaging including a volumetric t1-weighted sequence, multi-shell diffusion from which dti and noddi metrics were derived and a protocol suitable for mcdespot fitting. models of the grey matter-white matter and grey matter-csf surfaces were automatically generated from the t1-weighted mri. conventional diffusion and novel metrics of neurite density and mwf were sampled from intracortical grey matter and subcortical white matter surfaces and cortical thickness was measured.results: in intracortical grey matter, diffusivity was increased in the ipsilateral temporal and frontopolar cortices with more restricted areas of reduced neurite density. diffusivity increases were largely related to reductions in neurite density, and to a lesser extent csf partial volume effects, but not mwf. in subcortical white matter, widespread bilateral reductions in fractional anisotropy and increases in radial diffusivity were seen. these were primarily related to reduced neurite density, with an additional relationship to reduced mwf in the temporal pole and anterolateral temporal neocortex. changes were greater with increasing epilepsy duration. bilaterally reduced cortical thickness in the mesial temporal lobe and centroparietal cortices was unrelated to neurite density and mwf.conclusions: diffusivity changes in grey and white matter are primarily related to reduced neurite density with an additional relationship to reduced mwf in the temporal pole. neurite density may represent a more sensitive and specific biomarker of progressive neuronal damage in refractory tle that deserves further study.copyright © 2020 the author(s). published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
osteoarthritis is one of the major causes of disability in elderly adults. chondrocytes are responsible for the formation and remodeling of articular cartilage in joint tissue. the dysfunction of chondrocytes is a significant factor in the development of osteoarthritis. in the current study, we found that theobromine, a constituent of the cacao plant, possesses a preventive effect against interleukin (il)-1β-induced chondrocyte dysfunction. theobromine ameliorates il-1β-induced production of cellular reactive oxygen species (ros) and inflammatory mediators including cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2) and prostaglandin e2 (pge2). the presence of theobromine suppresses il-1β-induced inducible nitro oxide synthase (inos) expression and cellular nitro oxide (no) production. theobromine also suppresses il-1β-induced production of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1), as well as matrix metalloproteinases (mmp)-3 and mmp-13. additionally, theobromine mitigates il-1β-induced type ii collagen degradation. mechanistically, we show that theobromine inhibits il-1β-induced iκbα activation, nuclear factor-κb (nf-κb) protein p65 accumulation, and transfected nf-κb promoter activity, indicating that theobromine suppresses the nf-κb pathway in chondrocytes. collectively, our study demonstrates that the natural molecule theobromine has a protective effect to counter cytokine-induced chondrocyte dysfunction, implying its beneficial effect in the prevention of osteoarthritis.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
nerve growth factor (ngf) is a neurotrophic factor that is thought to have a broad role in the nervous system and tumors, and has recently been described as a mediator of inflammation. it is not clear whether or not ngf participates in apoptosis of articular chondrocytes. in this study, we determined if ngf affects asic1a expression and nf-κb p65 activation in rat chondrocytes, and measured the effectiveness of ngf on apoptotic protein expression in acid-induced chondrocytes. ngf was shown to up-regulate the level of asic1a in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. simultaneously, ngf activated nf-κb p65 in chondrocytes. additionally, the elevated asic1a expression induced by ngf was eliminated by the nf-κb inhibitor (pdtc) in chondrocytes. moreover, ngf reduced cell viability and induced ldh release under the premise of acid-induced articular chondrocytes. furthermore, ngf could enhance cleaved-caspase 9 and cleaved-parp expression in acid-pretreated chondrocytes, and which could be inhibited by using psalmotoxin 1(pctx1) or pdtc. together, these results indicated that ngf may up-regulate asic1a expression through the nf-κb signaling pathway, and further promote acid-induced apoptosis of chondrocytes.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background: cyberchondria (cyb) has been described relatively recently as a behaviour characterized by excessive online searching for medical information that is associated with increasing levels of health anxiety. although cyb has received some attention from researchers, there is no consensus about many of its aspects.aims: we describe one of the first reported cases of a treatment-seeking patient with cyb. we review the published literature on the definition of cyb, its assessment, epidemiology, cost and burden, psychological models and mechanisms associated with cyb, relationships between cyb and mental disorders and prevention and treatment strategies.methods: systematic review of all peer-reviewed papers published within the pubmed, psycinfo, and cochrane library databases.results: 61 articles were selected. nearly all the studies were descriptive and cross-sectional recruiting sample mainly from the general/university student population and collecting self-report data via online surveys. data on epidemiology, clinical features, course, comorbidity and therapeutic interventions were scarce. cyb showed a self-reported association with health anxiety, hypochondriasis and obsessive-compulsive disorder (ocd) as well as other forms of problematic usage of the internet (pui) the psychological mechanisms associated with cyb include low self-esteem, anxiety sensitivity, intolerance of uncertainty, pain catastrophizing and certain meta-cognitive beliefs.conclusion: a working definition of cyb includes excessive online health searches that are compulsive and may serve the purpose of seeking reassurance, whilst leading to a worsening of anxiety or distress and further negative consequences. cyb represents a clinically relevant transdiagnostic compulsive behavioural syndrome, closely related to pui and usually presenting in association with health anxiety, hypochondriasis and/or ocd. cyb is clearly in need of further study and we identify key areas for future research.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
background: there is evidence that symptomatology in patients with major depressive disorder (mdd) changes with age. however, studies comparing depressive symptomatology between different age groups during antidepressant therapy are rare. we compared demographic and clinical characteristics in depressed patients of different age groups at baseline and during treatment.methods: 889 mdd inpatients were divided into four age groups (18-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-65 yrs.). demographic and clinical characteristics including depressive symptomatology (assessed by the inventory of depressive symptoms) were assessed at baseline and weekly during treatment.results: at baseline, young patients (18-29 years) significantly more often reported cognitive symptoms like irritability, suicidality, negative self-concept and interpersonal sensitivity and more often suffered from drug abuse and comorbid personality disorders. late middle aged patients (50-65 years) significantly more often suffered from neuro-vegetative symptoms such as reduced general interest, sexual interest and sleep disturbances and more often showed a recurrent mdd and comorbid physical disorders. during therapy, symptoms such as interpersonal sensitivity in young patients and low interest in sex in late middle aged patients persisted until the end of treatment while all other symptoms declined until day 56.limitations: the herein presented age differences in depressive symptomatology only hold true for the study medication and are not generalizable to other antidepressants agents.conclusion: there are substantial differences in the clinical presentation of depression between age groups. whereas many of these differences disappear during treatment, some differences persisted until the end of treatment. these findings my help to more specifically tailor the treatment of depressed patients.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
tuna adulteration and mislabeling are serious problem worldwide and have caused economic loss and consumer rights violation. in this study, an electrometric knife (iknife) coupling rapid evaporative ionization mass spectrometry (reims) and a multivariate recognition model were developed and employed for in situ and real-time authentication of four tuna species without sample preparation. the results showed that the lipidomic profiles were successfully acquired and the differences in fatty acids and phospholipids were statistically analyzed to be significant (p < 0.05). the model displayed the superb classification accuracy (>93%) and validation (r2(y) = 0.992, q2 = 0.986), and the main contributors of m/z 817.64, m/z 809.68, etc. were screened out to be used as potential biomarkers. based on this technique, the identity of blind tuna samples could be unambiguously authenticated with the results displayed on a monitor screen directly. this study provided a front-line rapid detection method to prove the authenticity of tuna species.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
beer is one the most consumed alcoholic beverage in the world and its contamination with mycotoxins is of public health concern. this study reports a fast and automated analytical procedure based on a multi-heart-cutting two-dimensional liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method using electrospray ionization for the determination of seven mycotoxins (aflatoxins b1, b2, g2 and g1, ochratoxin a, fumonisins b1 and b2) in beers. the developed method was based on the heart-cutting 2d- hplc technique in which only the specific portions of the first dimension, in the retention time of analytes, were transferred into the second dimension for the further separation and successive determination. the method uses two different chromatographic columns; in the first dimension, 50 μl of sample was injected on first column, and mycotoxins elution regions were collected in a loop and transferred into the second column for the separation of analytes. each column operated in gradient elution mode in order to eliminate interfering compounds and improve separation and peak shape. after the optimization, the method has been validated according to eu regulation and finally applied for the analysis of forty beer samples collected from italian supermarkets. among all mycotoxins studied, fumonisins b1 was the most widely distributed in analysed beers (>21%) in the range from 0.6 to 12.3 ng ml-1. the automated methodology developed was able to determine accurately and simultaneously seven mycotoxins in beer. this provided a significant reduction of sample handle and, consequently of analysis time.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
this study examined the contribution of amylose to the organization of each starch fraction in recrystallized starch. amylosucrase (as)-modified waxy potato starches with different branch chain lengths were completely solubilized with amylose (3:1 ratio) and recrystallized at 4 °c for 48 h. the content of rapidly digestible starch and resistant starch (rs) showed linear change with degree of as modification, while slowly digestible starch (sds) did not. the changes in structural characteristics were tracked according to serial removal of each fraction. results from iodine binding property, branch chain length, x-ray diffraction, and thermal property analysis indicated that branch chain length of amylopectin determined the length of the amylose-amylopectin double helix and the mobility of amylose and that formation of sds or rs could be induced by controlling the length of amylopectin chains. these findings could be used for production of customized starches with specific digestive properties for health benefits.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
mulberry and chokeberry are rich sources of anthocyanins. in this study, the effect of the anthocyanin composition on the anthocyanin profile changes during in vitro digestion (mimicking the physiological conditions) was investigated by uhplc-(esi)-qtof and uhplc-(esi)-qqq. the antioxidant activity before and after in vitro digestion was elucidated. cyanidin-3-o-glucoside and cyanidin-3-o-galactoside were dominant in mulberry and chokeberry, respectively. moreover, the loss of cyanidin-3-o-galactoside in the chokeberry extract after digestion was greater than that of cyanidin-3-o-glucoside in the mulberry extract. after digestion, phenolic acids including protocatechuic acid and various cyanidin conjugates were newly formed because of decomposition and changes in the cyanidin-glycosides. the phenolic acid and cyanidin conjugate levels varied depending on the cyanidin glycoside sources in the colonic fraction. finally, antioxidant activity before and after digestion was higher in the chokeberry extract than in the mulberry extract. moreover, this activity continuously decreased until intestinal digestion but increased in the colonic fraction.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
introduction: papillary renal cell carcinoma (prcc) represents 10%-15% of renal carcinomas. no standard treatments exist for metastatic prcc (mprcc) patients. axitinib is indicated as second-line treatment in metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma, and we aim to assess the efficacy of this vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibitor in front line for mprcc.methods: this french multicentre phase ii study axipap enrolled untreated mprcc patients, with measurable disease, eastern cooperative oncology group performance status ≤ 1 and adequate organ functions. prcc had to be confirmed by histology expert central review. axitinib was administered orally 5 mg twice daily. primary end-point was progression-free rate at 24 weeks (24w-pfr) by central review.results: fifty-six patients were screened, and 44 included (13 type 1, 30 type 2 and 1 non-specified). the median follow-up was 32.0 (13.1-39.9) months. the 24w-pfr was 45.2% (95% confidence interval [ci], 32.6% to +∞), the objective response rate was 28.6% (95% ci, 15.7%-44.6%) (type 1: 7.7%; type 2: 35.7%). the overall median progression free survival was 6.6 months (95% ci, 5.5-9.2), 6.7 months (95% ci, 5.5-9.2) and 6.2 months (95% ci, 5.4-9.2) for type 1 and 2, respectively. median overall survival was 18.9 months (95% ci, 12.8-not reached). adverse events were as expected; grade 3-4 treatment-related adverse events were rare except hypertension (27%).conclusions: axitinib demonstrated encouraging efficacy in mprcc patients, especially in type 2 prcc. toxicity was manageable. axitinib appears as an interesting option for first-line treatment and to be worth further investigation in combination with immunotherapy in these patients. expert pathology review should be recommended in this setting.clinical trial registration: clinicaltrials.gov, nct02489695.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
blood analysis is the golden standard in the field of forensic toxicology. however, when extended decomposition of the remains has occurred, alternative matrices are required. skeletal tissue may provide an appropriate sample of choice since it is very resistant to putrefaction. however, today, the absence of reference data of drug concentrations in skeletal tissue poses a problem to meaningfully and reliably conduct toxicological testing on human skeletal material. the present study investigates the viability of skeletal tissue as an alternative matrix to evaluate xenobiotic consumption in legal cases. blood, bone tissue and bone marrow of different forensic cases were screened for 415 compounds of forensic interest. afterwards, methadone, clomipramine, citalopram and their respectively metabolites positive samples were quantified using fully validated methods. sample preparation was carried out by spe (whole blood and bone marrow), methanol extraction (bone sections) or protein precipitation (whole blood). all samples were analyzed using liquid chromatography coupled to a triple quad mass spectrometer. multiple drugs were successfully identified in all sampled matrices. in bone (marrow) not as many substances were detected as in blood but it poses a valid alternative when blood is not available. especially bone marrow showed big potential with a concordance of 80.5% with blood. clomipramine, citalopram and their metabolites were proven to be detectable and quantifiable in all specimens sampled. bone marrow showed the highest concentrations followed by blood and bone tissue. when citalopram blood concentrations were correlated with the bone concentrations, a linear trend could be detected. the same was seen between blood and bone marrow for citalopram concentrations. methadone was also proven to be detectable in all specimens sampled. however, its metabolites emdp and edpp were absent or below the lod in some samples. overall, methadone concentrations were higher in bone marrow than in bone. with exception of one case, blood concentrations were higher than bone concentrations. for methadone, a linear trend could be found between blood and bone concentration. comparing methadone concentrations in blood and bone marrow an exponential trend could be seen. in conclusion, these findings show the potential forensic value of bone and bone marrow as an alternative matrix. aside to that, a standard protocol for the sample collection and processing is proposed.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background: cluster randomized control trials (crcts) have unique challenges compared to single site trials with regards to conduct of the trial, and it is important to understand these barriers. the aim of this scoping review was to describe the current literature surrounding the implementation of the crcts in hospitals.methods: the search strategy was designed to identify literature relevant to conduct of crcts, with hospitals as the unit of randomization. data was extracted and was mapped using the consolidated framework for implementation research (cfir) as a codebook, which contains 39 constructs organized into five domains.results: twenty-two articles met inclusion criteria and were included. 18 of 39 constructs of the cfir were identified in coding, spanning four of the five domains. barriers to the conduct of the trial were rarely reported as the main outcome of the study, and few details were included in the identified literature.conclusions: the review can provide guidance to future researchers planning crcts in hospitals. it also identified a large gap in reporting of conduct of these trials, demonstrating the need for a research agenda that further explores the barriers and facilitators, with the aim of garnering knowledge for improved guidance in the implementation.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
background: the frequency of allergic diseases is constantly rising. dysregulated production of isotype e immunoglobulins is one of the key factors behind allergic reactions and its modulation is therefore an important target for pharmacological intervention. natural products of the pseurotin family were reported to be inhibitors of ige production in b-cells. mechanistic details underlying these effects are however not well understood.purpose: in the present study, we synthesized new analogs of natural pseurotins and extensively investigated their inhibitory effects on activation, proliferation and differentiation of b-cells, as well as on the production of ige.study design: effects of two natural pseurotins (pseurotins a and d) and a collection of fully synthetic pseurotin analogs were studied on mouse b-cells stimulated by the combination of il-4 and e. coli lipopolysaccharide. the ige production was determined along with cell viability and cell proliferation. the phosphorylation of selected members of the stat transcription factor family was subsequently investigated. finally, the in vivo effect of pseurotin d on the ovalbumin-induced delayed type hypersensitivity response was tested in mice.results: we discovered that several fully synthetic pseurotin analogs were able to decrease the production of ige in stimulated b-cells with potency comparable to that of pseurotins a and d. we found that the two natural pseurotins and the active synthetic analogs inhibited the phosphorylation of stat3, stat5 and stat6 proteins in stimulated b-cells, resulting in the inhibition of b-cell proliferation and differentiation into the plasma cells. in vivo, pseurotin d decreased ovalbumin-induced foot pad edema.conclusion: our results advance the current mechanistic understanding of the pseurotin-induced inhibition of ige production in b-cells by linking the effect to stat signaling, and associated modulation of b-cell proliferation and differentiation. together with our finding that structurally simpler pseurotin analogs were able to reproduce the effects of natural pseurotins, the presented work has implications for the future research on these secondary metabolites in the context of allergic diseases.copyright © 2020 elsevier gmbh. all rights reserved.
backgound: ginsenoside rb1, the main active constituent of panax ginseng, displays significant anti-inflammatory activity, although the mechanism has not been clearly unraveled. in this study, rb1's mechanism of anti-inflammatory effects were investigated.methods: the flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) were empolyed to detect pro-inflammatory cytokines release. the related protein and gene expression was investigated by western blotting and qrt-pcr. the dimerization of tlr4 was measured by co-immunoprecipitation and molecular docking assays. cellular thermal shift assay was used for the determination of the binding of rb1 and tlr4. for animal moldels, lps- or cantharidin-induced acute kidney injury, lps-induced septic death, and dimethyl benzene-induced ear edema were employed to investigate rb1's anti-inflammatory activity in vivo.results: rb1 significantly decreased inflammatory cytokines release in lps-stimulated raw264.7 cells and bmdms, as well as cox-2 and inos amounts. rb1 reduced lps-associated calcium influx, ros production, and no generation. the nf-κb and mapk axes participated in rb1's anti-inflammatory effects. molecular docking simulation indicated rb1 bound to tlr4 to prevent tlr4 dimerization, as confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation and cellular thermal shift assay. furthermore, myd88 recruitment and tak1 expression were altered by reduced tlr4 dimerization, indicating the tlr4-myd88-nf-κb/mapk pathways contributed to rb1's anti-inflammatory process. in animal models, rb1 markedly alleviated lps- or cantharidin-induced acute kidney injury, rescued lps-induced septic mice from death, and inhibited dimethyl benzene-induced mouse ear edema.conclusion: overall, these findings demonstrate rb1 exhibits marked anti-inflammatory effects, suggesting rb1 represents an optimal molecule for treating inflammatory diseases.copyright © 2020 elsevier gmbh. all rights reserved.
the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of spirulina supplementation in a high-energy (he) diet on lipid metabolism, oxidative status and immunity in hu lambs. the lambs were assigned to two groups receiving either a standard diet (st) or a he diet. each group was divided into three subgroups: no spirulina supplementation (control), 1% spirulina supplementation, or 3% spirulina supplementation. the body fat, serum cholesterol, triacylglycerol and oxidative stress increased in lambs fed the he diet. however, 3% spirulina supplementation in the he diet reduced above parameters and enhanced antioxidant capacity, including increased sod activity and t-aoc content in serum and longissimus thoracis et lumborum (ltl). additionally, lambs receiving 3% spirulina supplementation showed an improvement in immunity-related parameters, including increased igg concentration in serum and red and white blood cell counts. in conclusion, 3% spirulina supplementation in he diet ameliorated lipid metabolic disorder and oxidative stress caused by a he diet.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
the industrial ethanol fermentation imposes several stresses to microorganisms. however, some bacterial species are well adapted and manage to endure these harmful conditions. lactobacillus vini is one of the most found bacteria in these environments, indicating the existence of efficient tolerance mechanisms. in view of this premise, the present study aimed to describe the tolerance of l. vini to several stressing agents encounter in industrial environments and the genetic components of the stress response. in general, l. vini showed significant tolerance to stressors commonly found in fuel-ethanol fermentations, and only doses higher than normally reached in processes restrained its growth. the lag phase and the growth rate were the most responsive kinetic parameter affected. gene expression analysis revealed that uspii gene positively responded to all conditions tested, a typical profile of a general stress response gene. in addition, the results also revealed aspects of regulatory modules of co-expressed genes responding to different stresses, and also the similarities of response mechanism with basis in common cellular damages. altogether, these data contribute to uncover the factors that could favour l. vini in the industrial fermentation which could be shared with other well adapted species and reports the first stress response genes in this bacterium.copyright © 2020 elsevier gmbh. all rights reserved.
hyaluronic acid (ha) is physiologically synthesized by several human cells types but it is also a widespread ingredient of commercial products, from pharmaceuticals to cosmetics. despite its extended use, the precise intra- and extra-cellular effects of ha at low-molecular-weight (lwm-ha) are currently unclear. at this regard, the aim of this study is to in-depth identify and quantify proteome's changes in normal human dermal fibroblasts after 24 h treatment with 0.125, 0.25 and 0.50 % lmw-ha (20-50 kda) respectively, vs controls. to do this, a label-free quantitative proteomic approach based on high-resolution mass spectrometry was used. overall, 2328 proteins were identified of which 39 significantly altered by 0.125 %, 149 by 0.25 % and 496 by 0.50 % lmw-ha. protein networking studies indicated that the biological effects involve the enhancement of intracellular activity at all concentrations, as well as the extracellular matrix reorganization, proteoglycans and collagen biosynthesis. moreover, the cell's wellness was confirmed, although mild inflammatory and immune responses were induced at the highest concentration. the more complete comprehension of intra- and extra-cellular effects of lmw-ha here provided by an advanced analytical approach and protein networking will be useful to further exploit its features and improve current formulations.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
assessment of fluoroscopic image quality has not kept pace with technological developments in interventional imaging equipment. access to 'for presentation' data on these systems has motivated this investigation into a novel quantitative method of measuring image quality. we have developed a statistical algorithm as an alternative to subjective assessment using threshold contrast detail detectability techniques. using sets of uniformity exposed fluoroscopy frames, the algorithm estimates the minimum contrast necessary for conspicuity of a range of virtual target object areas a. pixel mean value distributions in a central image region are gaussian, with standard deviation σ pixel binning produces background distributions with area a. for 95% confidence of conspicuity a target object must exhibit a minimum contrast of 3.29σ. a range of threshold contrasts are calculated for a range of virtual areas. analysis on a few seconds of fluoroscopy data is performed remotely and no test object is required. in this study threshold index and contrast detail curves were calculated for different incident air kerma rates at the detector, different levels of electronic magnification and different types of image processing. a limited number of direct comparisons were made with subjective assessments using the leeds to.10 test object. results obtained indicate that the statistical algorithm is not only more sensitive to changes in levels of detector dose rate and magnification, but also to levels of image processing, including edge-enhancement. threshold index curves thus produced could be used as an interventional system optimisation tool and to objectively compare image quality between vendor systems.copyright © 2020 associazione italiana di fisica medica. published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
the main aim of this study was to investigate and characterize the bacterial strain that has the potential to degrade allethrin. the isolated strain, sphingomonas trueperi cw3, degraded allethrin (50 mg l-1) in batch experiments within seven days. the box-behnken design optimized allethrin degradation and had a confirmation of 93% degradation at ph 7.0, at a temperature of 30 °c and an inocula concentration of 100 mg l-1. the results from gas chromatography and mass spectrometry analysis confirmed the existence of nine metabolites from the degradation of allethrin with strain cw3. the cleavage of the ester bond, followed by the degradation of the five-carbon rings, was allethrin's primary degradation pathway. the strain cw3 also degraded other widely applied synthetic pyrethroids such as cyphenothrin, bifenthrin, permethrin, tetramethrin, β-cypermethrin and chlorempenthrin. furthermore, in experiments performed with sterilized soil, strain cw3 based bioaugmentation effectively removed allethrin at a significantly reduced half-life.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
water deficit severely limits productivity of plants, and pose a major threat to modern agriculture system. therefore, understanding drought adaptive mechanisms in drought-tolerant plants is imperative to formulate strategies for development of desiccation tolerance in crop plants. in present investigation, metabolic profiling employing gc-qtof-ms/ms and hplc-dad was carried out to evaluate metabolic adjustments under drought stress in the xero-halophyte salvadora persica. the metabolite profiling identified a total of 68 metabolites in s. persica leaf, including organic acids, amino acids, sugars, sugar alcohols, hormones, and polyphenols. the results showed that higher cellular osmolality under drought stress was accompanied by accumulations of several osmoprotectants like sugars and polyols (sucrose, glucose, mannose, galactose, erythrose, sorbose, glycerol, and myoinositol), organic acids (galactaric acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, oxalic acid, and citric acid), and amino acids (alanine, phenylalanine, tyrosine). upregulation of aba and ja support to achieve early drought tolerance in s. persica. moreover, accumulation of coumarin, gallic acid, and chlorogenic acid provide antioxidative defense to s. persica. kegg pathway enrichment analysis showed that altered metabolites were associated with starch and sucrose metabolism, galactose metabolism, inositol phosphate metabolism, and phenylalanine metabolism. while during recovery, metabolites associated with lysine biosynthesis and alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism were significantly altered. the results of the present study imply that coordinated regulations between various metabolites, metabolic processes, and pathways empower the xerohalophyte s. persica to adapt under drought environment. the knowledge from this study will enable the development of drought tolerance in crops using genetic engineering and breeding approaches.copyright © 2020 elsevier masson sas. all rights reserved.
a multicenter, open-label, expanded-access study followed the safety of taliglucerase alfa, a plant cell-expressed recombinant enzyme replacement therapy (ert), in adults with gaucher disease previously treated with imiglucerase. patients received taliglucerase alfa every 2 weeks for 9 months at a dose equivalent to their previous imiglucerase dose (part a); patients were offered treatment for up to 33 months (part b), and a later amendment allowed treatment-naïve patients. fifty-eight patients received taliglucerase alfa (55.2% male; mean age, 46.1 years; mean bi-weekly dose, 35.2 u/kg; mean duration, 17.8 months); 51 patients previously received ert, seven were treatment-naïve, and 36 completed the study. most adverse events were mild or moderate; treatment-related adverse events were mild and transient. in previously treated patients, increases from baseline to last follow-up were observed for mean ± se hemoglobin concentration (13.0 ± 0.3 g/dl to 13.4 ± 0.2 g/dl) and platelet count (179,242 ± 15,344/mm3 to 215,242 ± 17,867/mm3). findings were similar in treatment-naïve patients (mean ± se hemoglobin concentration and platelet count, 12.8 ± 0.3 g/dl to 13.5 ± 0.2 g/dl and 168,821 ± 14,368/mm3 to 204,641 ± 16,071/mm3, respectively). taliglucerase alfa was well-tolerated for up to 33 months and demonstrated a durable therapeutic effect.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
enhanced corrosion resistance and accelerated new bone formation are desired to make mg and its alloys to be ideal candidate for bone biomaterial. for this purpose, a cdha/mgf2 bi-layer coating was prepared on high purity mg by a combination of fluoride treatment and hydrothermal treatment. the coating exhibited a nanoscale surface topography. enhanced adhesion strength and corrosion resistance was obtained for the cdha/mgf2 bi-layer coating. in vitro cell experiment showed that the adhesion, proliferation and differentiation of mg63 cells were significantly improved on mg with cdha/mgf2 coating compared to that on mg with ha coating and mgf2 coating. in conclusion, this study provides a promising surface modification method for mg metal with enhanced corrosion resistance and superior osteogenic bioactivity.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
sphingomyelin-induced structural modification of human hemoglobin (hb) has been investigated in its native and unfolded conformers that are partially denatured in presence of ∼ 4 m urea, completely denatured in ∼ 8 m urea and thermally disrupted (at ∼ 65 °c) state. the absorption studies unveil ground state complexation between hb and sm. from steady-state fluorescence and quenching studies alteration of the micro-environments around trp residues of hb in above mentioned different cases has been determined. moreover, lesser exposure of trp residues to sm in thermally disrupted hb can be accounted for the exceptionally interesting outcomes in other experiments. the alterations in the time-resolved decay profiles of native hb, partially and totally chemically denatured as well as thermally disrupted hb with gradual addition of sm also affirm the amendment of the proteinous micro-environment surrounding trp residues in a view of fret between trp residues and heme group. wavelength-sensitive emission spectral studies reveal that the protein shows red edge effect in its different conformations in presence and absence of sm. interestingly, the wavelength-responsive time-resolved study at a constant excitation wavelength demonstrates that with addition of lipid the increment of the average fluorescence lifetime signifies a considerable modulation of solvation dynamics of the fluorescent trp residues in their excited state being greatest in case of thermally disrupted hb. nevertheless, the loss of α-helicity of hb at its various conformers with addition of sm has been portrayed thoroughly by means of far-uv cd spectral studies in a view of disruption of secondary structure of the protein.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
the raphidophyte chattonella antiqua is a noxious red-tide-forming alga that harms fish culture and the aquatic environment. chattonella antiqua produces and secretes superoxide anions (o2-), and excessive secretion of o2- into the water has been associated with fish mortality. it is known that strong light stimulates the production of o2- in chattonella spp. but the mechanism of the light-induced production of o2- remains to be clarified. in the present study, we examined the effects of light on extracellular levels of o2- and photosynthesis in c. antiqua. extracellular levels of o2- rose during growth under high-intensity light, and the level of o2- was correlated with the photosynthetic parameter qp, which reflects the rate of transport of electrons downstream of photosystem ii. the production of o2- was inhibited in the presence of 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea, an inhibitor of photosynthetic electron transport, suggesting that reducing power derived from electron transport might be required for the production of o2-. by contrast, the production of o2- was enhanced in the presence of glycolaldehyde, an inhibitor of the calvin-benson cycle, suggesting that the accumulation of nadph might stimulate the production of o2-. thus, it is likely that the production of o2- is regulated by photosynthesis in c. antiqua.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
antibiotic resistance is a major public health problem worldwide and the finding of alternative methods for eliminating bacteria is one of the prerogatives of medical research. the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in dentistry, especially for the treatment of peri-implantitis, could lead to superinfections. alternative methods, like photodynamic therapy mediated by the use of aminolevulinic acid and a red light has been largely described, especially in dentistry, but results were encouraging against gram-positive bacteria, but limited against gram-negative. the effectiveness of photodynamic therapy mediated by a novel product containing aminolevulinic acid, aladent (alad) has been tested in this in vitro study, against different types of bacteria particularly involved in the infections of the oral cavity and peri-implantitis. the novelty of alad is the marked hydrophilicity that should increase the passage of the molecule through the membrane pores of gram-negative bacteria. considering the novelty of the product a preliminary experiment permitted to test the effectiveness against enterococcus faecalis after 1 h of alad incubation at different concentrations, with or without different timings of led irradiation. the count of cfus and the live/dead observation with fluorescent microscopy showed a significant reduction and killing of bacterium. then, in the second stage, that could meet the necessity of effectiveness and the clinician's requests to reduce the timing of treatment, alad, with and without irradiation, was tested on staphylococcus aureus, enterococcus faecalis, escherichia coli, veillonella parvula and porphyromonas gingivalis. in particular, the efficiency of different concentrations of the product after a 25 min incubation was tested with and without the adjunctive led irradiation for 5 min. a slight alad bactericidal effect was reported for all bacteria, also without led irradiation, however, the most effective treatment was 25 min of 50% alad incubation followed by 5 min of a red led. the in vitro tests demonstrated that alad gel with led irradiation exerts a potent antibacterial activity on different bacteria, both gram-positive and gram-negative.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
uv exposure could induce carcinogenic mutation in human cells, including cpd (cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer), and 6-4 pp (6-4 photoproduct) dna damages. spiting the active ber (base excision repair) system of human cells, it lacks initiator glycosylase, rendering these damages to be only repaired through ner (nucleotide excision repair) system. some microorganisms such as deinococcus radiodurans bacteria have a ber system for repairing these damages with an enzyme coded by the uvse gene. this study evaluated the efficacy of the recombinant uvse protein for repairing the cpd and 6-4 pp dna damages in human cells. at the current study, the optimized sequence of the uvse gene was synthesized and expressed in hek293t cell line. the identity of protein was ascertained through elisa assay and the stability of expression was measured via qpcr. the human hek293t cells with the recombinant protein and without it were exposed to the uv light, and the repair of dna damages was analyzed in both conditions using cpd and 6-4pp elisa combo kit. the results indicated that uvse gene was successfully colonized and expressed and expression showed to be stable. hek293t cells with recombinant uvse gene showed efficacy at repairing 80% of cpd and 85% of 6-4 photoproducts during one hour, and more than 95% of damages over 4 h' repair time. considering the outcome of this study, it could be concluded that the uvse recombinant product is highly effective at repairing both cpd and 6-4 pp damages and could be considered as a preventive agent for uv-induced skin cancers.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background: adverse childhood experiences, especially maltreatment, are regarded as significant risk factors for the development of antisocial behavior in adolescence. however, possible correlates are still to be investigated after considering the history of criminal records and the experience of institutionalization.objective: in this study, differences in attachment anxiety and avoidance, and reflective functioning (rf) between traumatized incarcerated juvenile offenders and non-delinquent adolescents institutionalized in child services because of domestic violence were examined.participants, setting and method: forty-two juvenile offenders (nfemale = 19) and 43 inmates of institutions for adolescents without parental care (nfemale = 20) with the history of trauma filled in the childhood trauma and attachment dimensions questionnaires, and were scored on the reflective functioning scale. groups were matched on age and education.results: results indicate that both groups reported equally high levels of attachment anxiety and avoidance. male juvenile offenders had lower scores on reflective functioning than both female convicted minors (b = 1.06; odds ratio = 2.88; nagelkerkes r2 = 45) and non-delinquent adolescents of both genders (b = -.65; odds ratio = .52; nagelkerkes r2 = 42). in comparison to non-convicted males, male offenders also had higher scores on the control scale of idealization (b = .35; odds ratio = 1.42; nagelkerkes r2 = 42). no differences between females with and without a history of crimes were found.conclusions: results indicate a need for building rf in both traumatized samples, especially in male delinquents, and encourage further research in females.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier ltd.
background: although child neglect is common, there has been comparatively little research on it or its specific forms and their effects on mental health in adulthood.objective: this study aimed to examine the association between exposure to different forms of childhood neglect and lifetime suicidal behavior among a nationally representative sample of adults in the u.s. general population.methods: data were analyzed from 5665 adults that were drawn from the national comorbidity survey replication (ncs-r). information was obtained on 'care', 'supervisory' and 'medical' neglect in childhood and lifetime suicidal behavior (ideation, plan, attempt). lifetime psychiatric disorders were based on the world mental health - composite international diagnostic interview. logistic regression analysis was used to examine the associations.results: in fully adjusted models, any neglect was associated with significantly increased odds for all forms of suicidal behavior (suicidal ideation, odds ratio [or]: 1.80, 95 % confidence interval [ci]: 1.42-2.29; plan, or: 2.27, 95 % ci: 1.78-2.91; attempt, or: 2.05, 95 % ci: 1.63-2.59, all p < 0.001). in unadjusted analyses all individual forms of neglect were significantly associated with all forms of suicidal behavior. however, when all forms of neglect were included together in the fully adjusted models, care neglect was no longer significantly associated with any form of suicidal behavior.conclusion: different forms of childhood neglect are associated with suicidal behavior in adults independent of common mental disorders. future studies should focus on childhood neglect subtypes in order to better understand the effects of neglect on adult mental health.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
background: the concentration-response relationship between mortality and long-term exposure to fine particulate matter (pm2.5) has not been fully elucidated, especially at high levels of pm2.5 concentrations.objective: we aimed to evaluate chronic effects of ambient pm2.5 exposure on deaths among chinese adults in high-exposure settings.methods: participants of the prediction for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk in china (china-par) project were included from four prospective cohorts among chinese adults aged ≥18 years old. the overall follow-up rate of the four cohorts was 93.4% until the recent follow-up survey that ended in 2015. the average of satellite-based pm2.5 concentrations during 2000-2015 at 1-km spatial resolution was assigned to each participant according to individual residence addresses. based on the pooled analysis of individual data from the four cohorts, a cox proportional hazards model was used to estimate the hazard ratio (hr) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95% cis) for the association of pm2.5 exposure with mortality after multivariate adjustment.results: a total of 116,821 participants were eligible in the final analysis. during a mean of 7.7 years of follow-up, 6,395 non-accidental deaths and 2,507 cardio-metabolic deaths occurred. the mean of pm2.5 concentration was 64.9 μg/m3 ranging from 31.2 μg/m3 to 97.0 μg/m3. for each 10 μg/m3 increment in pm2.5, the hr was 1.11 (95% ci: 1.08-1.14) for non-accidental mortality and 1.22 (95% ci: 1.16-1.27) for cardio-metabolic mortality. in addition, a weak exponential curve for the concentration-response association between mortality and pm2.5 was observed among chinese adults.conclusions: our study provided important evidence of the long-term effects of pm2.5 exposure on deaths among chinese adults. the findings expand our knowledge on concentration-response relationship in high-exposure environments, which is essential to address the urgent challenge of reducing the disease burden attributable to pm2.5 exposure in rapidly industrializing countries such as china.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier ltd.
low doses of antibiotics are ubiquitous in the marine environment and may exert negative effects on non-target aquatic organisms. using primary macrophages of common carp, we investigated the mechanisms of action following exposure to several common antibiotics; cefotaxime, enrofloxacin, tetracycline, sulfamonomethoxine, and their mixtures, and explored the immunomodulatory effects associated with the nuclear factor-κb (nf-κb) signaling pathway. a kegg pathway analysis was conducted using the sixty-six differentially expressed genes found in all treatments, and showed that exposure to 100 μg/l of antibiotics could affect regulation of the nf-κb signaling pathway, suggesting that activation of nf-κb is a common response in all four classes of antibiotics. in addition, the four antibiotics induced nf-κb and nf-κb-associated cytokines expression, as verified by qpcr, however, these induction responses by four antibiotics were minor when compared to the same concentration of lps treatment (100 μg/l). antagonists of nf-κb blocked many of the immune effects of the antibiotics, providing evidence that nf-κb pathways mediate the actions of all four antibiotics. moreover, exposure to environmentally relevant, low levels (0.01-100 μg/l) of antibiotics induced a nf-κb-mediated immune response, including endogenous generation of ros, activity of antioxidant enzymes, as well as expression of cytokine and apoptosis. moreover, exposure to mixtures of antibiotics presented greater effects on most tested immunological parameters than exposure to a single antibiotic, suggesting additive effects from multiple antibiotics in the environment. this study demonstrates that exposure of fish primary macrophages to low doses of antibiotics activates the nf-kb pathway.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier ltd.. all rights reserved.
this study aimed to provide mechanistic insights into mitophagy pathway associated with papillomavirus infection in urothelial cells of cattle. the elimination of mitochondria via autophagy, termed mitophagy, is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism for mitochondrial quality control and homeostasis. pink1/parkin-mediated mitophagy, a ubiquitin-dependent selective autophagy of dysfunctional mitochondria, has been described here, for the first time, in urothelial cells from 25 bladder cancers in cattle infected by bovine papillomavirus (bpv). the expression of bpv-2 and bpv-13 e5 oncoprotein was detected by rt-pcr. abnormal mitochondria delimited by expanding phagophores, were peculiar ultrastructural features of neoplastic urothelial cells. high levels of mitochondrial phosphorylated pink1/parkin were observed in neoplastic urothelial cells infected by bpvs. phosphoparkin interacted with mitofusin 2 (mfn2) and ubiquitin (ub), which confirmed that mfn2 is a parkin receptor at the mitochondrial level, where parkin interacted also with ub. furthermore, parkin established a complex that was comprised of optineurin, p62, lc3, laforin, and embryonic stem cell-expressed ras (eras), that interacted with bpv e5 oncoprotein, and bag3, which, in turn, regulated the formation of a complex composed of hpc70/hsp70, chip, an hsc70-interacting e3 ubiquitin ligase. it is conceivable that eras is involved in mitophagosome maturation via phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k) pathway. bag3, in association with hsc70/hsp70, may contribute to the transport and degradation of chip-ubiquitinated cargo as this complex recognises ubiquitinated cargos and transports them to aggresomes to be degraded. furthermore, bag3 may be involved in mitophagosome formation as it interacted with synaptopodin 2, which is known to play a role in mitophagosome biogenesis.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
background and purpose: patients with life-threatening illnesses, such as cancer, experience emotional distress. this study was to investigate the molecular and cellular mechanisms of relevant psychological stressor on tumor growth and therapeutic resistance.materials and methods: stress was induced in c57bl/6j mice bearing llc lung tumors by exposure to a conspecific mice receiving inescapable foot shocks. mice were irradiated at 7 gy for 3 consecutive days. behaviors were monitored by open field test (oft), elevated plus maze (epm), sucrose preference test (spt), and learned helplessness (lh) test. protein expression in tissues and cultured cells were measured by western blot.results: this study in animals showed that observing a conspecific mouse receiving foot shocks induced depression like behaviors with increased plasma corticosterone and adrenaline levels which increased tumor growth and radioresistance. stress increased wnt1, drosha, and vimentin expression and decreased e-cadherin expression in tumor tissues. the combination of stress and irradiation enhanced radioresistance along with the increase in vimentin expression. the in vitro study showed that a β2-adrenergic receptor (β2-ar) agonist blocked irradiation-induced cell apoptosis and decreased cell viability, while silencing β2-ar expression reduced the protective effects of β2-ar agonist. β2-ar agonist obviously increased wnt1 and drosha expression in llc-1 cells.conclusion: psychological stress increased tumor growth and enhanced radioresistance associated with the activation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition by stress hormone-stimulated adrenergic receptors.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
background and purpose: patients were treated at our institute for single and multiple lymph node oligometastases on the 1.5t mr-linac since august 2018. the superior soft-tissue contrast and additional software features of the mr-linac compared to cbct-linacs allow for online adaptive treatment planning. the purpose of this study was to perform a target coverage and dose criteria based evaluation of the clinically delivered online adaptive radiotherapy treatment compared with conventional cbct-linac treatment.materials and methods: patient data was used from 14 patients with single lymph node oligometastases and 6 patients with multiple (2-3) metastases. all patients were treated on the 1.5t mr-linac with a prescribed dose of 5 × 7 gy to 95% of the ptv and a cbct-linac plan was created for each patient. the difference in target coverage between these plans was compared and plans were evaluated based on dose criteria for each fraction after calculating the cbct-plan on the daily anatomy. the gtv coverage was evaluated based on the online planning and the post-delivery mri.results: for both single and multiple lymph node oligometastases the gtv v35gy had a median value of 100% for both the mr-linac plans and cbct-plans pre- and post-delivery and did not significantly differ. the percentage of plans that met all dose constraints was improved from 19% to 84% and 20% to 67% for single and multiple lymph node cases, respectively.conclusion: target coverage and dose criteria based evaluation of the first clinical 1.5t mr-linac sbrt treatments of lymph node oligometastases compared with conventional cbct-linac treatment shows a smaller amount of unplanned violations of high dose criteria. the gtv coverage was comparable. benefit is primarily gained in patients treated for multiple lymph node oligometastases: geometrical deformations are accounted for, dose can be delivered in one plan and margins can be reduced.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background and purpose: breast cancer patients treated with radiotherapy are at increased risk of subsequent acute coronary syndromes (acs). we aimed to study if radiotherapy also influences the prognosis of these acs.materials and methods: we included all 398 patients diagnosed with acs following radiotherapy from our hospital-based cohort of early breast cancer patients aged <71 years, treated 1970-2009. cardiovascular disease incidence and cause of death were acquired through questionnaires to general practitioners and cardiologists. internal mammary chain (imc) irradiation delivers the highest heart doses in breast cancer radiotherapy. hence, we compared acs prognosis between patients treated with/without imc-irradiation. acs prognosis was assessed through cardiac death, death due to acs and cardiovascular disease incidence, using multivariable cox proportional hazard models and by estimating cumulative incidence.results: in total, 62% of patients with acs had received imc-irradiation and 38% did not (median age at acs diagnosis, 67 years). median time between breast cancer and acs was 15 years. after acs, ten-year cumulative risk of cardiac death was 35% for patients who had imc-irradiation (95% confidence interval [95%ci] 29-41) compared to 24% (95%ci 17-31) for patients without imc-irradiation (p = 0.04). after correction for confounders, imc-irradiation remained associated with a less favourable prognosis of acs compared to no imc-irradiation (hazard ratio cardiac death = 1.7, 95%ci 1.1-2.5).conclusion: our results suggest that radiotherapy, in case of substantial heart doses,may worsen acs prognosis. this is an important, novel finding that may impact upon the risk-based care for breast cancer survivors with acs.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
extraverts and introverts show different preferences for humor regarding different humor types. however, few studies focused on the neurological underpinnings of the connection between extraversion and the stage-wise cognitive model of humor processing. to investigate the influence of extraversion on different sub-stages of humor processing, electroencephalography (eeg) data was collected when participants read and rated jokes and non-jokes. the event-related potential (erp) data showed a smaller n400 (300-500 ms) but a larger late positive potential (500-900 ms) for jokes than non-jokes, which may reflect lexical association and integrative interpretation in joke processing. the more extraverted group had a larger p2 (200-300 ms) and a smaller n400 than the less extraverted group in response to all the stimuli, which may indicate their different allocation of attentional and cognitive resources to external stimulation. additionally, the regression analyses showed that the late positivity effects of jokes were positively correlated with the extraversion level. the results could imply extraverts' controlled processes of cognitive resource allocation for jokes, and suggest the same groups' attentiveness and motivation for reward stimuli (i.e., jokes). importantly, our erp data could support extraverts' increased exploration for verbal humor from a better temporal aspect for the first time.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
this study explored the impact of infant temperament and maternal stress on the development of the infant medial prefrontal cortex (mpfc) among sixteen 6-8-month-old infants. functional near infrared spectroscopy (fnirs) was used to measure activation of the infant mpfc in response to angry, happy, and sad faces. infant temperament and dimensions of maternal stress were measured with the infant behavior questionnaire and the parenting stress index respectively. infants with high negative emotionality demonstrated increased mpfc activation in association with all emotion face conditions. negative emotionality moderated the effect of total maternal stress on mpfc activation to angry and sad faces. mother-infant dysfunctional interaction was related to increased mpfc activation associated with happy faces, supporting the "novelty hypothesis", in which the mpfc responds more strongly to unique experiences. therefore, this study provides additional evidence that infant temperament and the quality of the mother-infant relationship influence the development of the mpfc and how infants process emotions.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
granules of calcium/phosphate biomaterials are used to fill small bone defects in oral and maxilla-facial surgery. granules of natural (e.g., trabecular bone, coral) or synthetic biomaterials are provided by industry. small granules can also form of putty. the 3d geometry of granules creates a macroporosity allowing invasion of vascular and bone cells when pores are larger than 300 μm. we analyzed the 3d-porosity of 11 different stacks of biomaterials: osteopure®, copios®, bio-oss®, tcp dental hp®, keraos®, tch®, biocoral®, ethoss® and nanostim®. for each granular biomaterial, two sizes of granules were analyzed: small and large. microcomputed tomography (microct) determined porosity and microarchitectural characteristics of the biomaterials stacks. computational ﬂuid dynamics (cfd), a simulation method, was used on the stacks of microct images. stacks of small granules had a much lower permeation and fluid velocity than large granules and the hydraulic tortuosity was increased. significant correlations were observed between microarchitecture parameters (porosity, mean pore diameter and specific surface) and fluid dynamic parameters. the two putties were associated with low (or absence of) porosity and permeation study revealed a very low (or absence) of flow rate. stacks of granules represent 3d scaffolds resembling trabecular bone with an interconnected porous microarchitecture. small granules create pores less than 300 μm in diameter; this induces a low fluid flow rate. cfd simulates the accessibility of body fluids and progenitor cells and confirms that it is depending on the shape and 3d arrangements of granules within a stack. large granules must be preferred to putties and small granules.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier ltd.
cross talk between endothelial cells and adipocytes is vital to adipocyte functions, but little is known about the mechanisms or factors controlling the process. angiogenesis is a critical component linking the endothelium to healthy adipogenesis, yet it is not known if or how it is involved in adipocyte physiology. therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of angiopoietin-1 (ang-1) and -2 (ang-2) as well as their receptor, tie-2, on adipocyte physiology. 3t3-l1 pre- and mature adipocytes were found to express ang-1, ang-2, and tie-2, which decrease upon polyunsaturated fatty acid treatment. furthermore, 3t3-l1 cells treated with recombinant ang-1 or ang-2 increased expression of the antiapoptotic gene bcl-x and decreased expression of the proapoptotic gene casp-8. next, preadipocytes were treated with saturated fatty acids (sfas) to induce cell stress. sfa-mediated splicing of x-box-binding protein-1 was reduced by co-treatment with ang-1, and cell viability was improved in the presence of sfas + ang-1. taken together, these results indicate that ang-1 may protect preadipocytes from sfa-induced apoptosis and endoplasmic reticulum stress.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
self-regulation theory (srt) posits that individuals make decisions regarding behavior change based on a comparison of their actual (e.g., excessive alcohol use) and desired (e.g., abstinence) behaviors. this comparison must result in a discrepancy of sufficient magnitude to motivate an individual toward behavior change. it appears that this purported mechanism of behavior change (mobc) has not been tested with regards to alcohol use disorder (aud) treatment. furthermore, there seems to be no psychometrically sound instrument for assessing such discrepancies in a clinical sample. the purpose of this study was to establish the psychometric properties of an instrument developed to assess actual versus desired alcohol use discrepancies that could be used to test this purported mobc underlying srt. the alcohol use discrepancy instrument (audi) was administered to 235 individuals participating in the clifford et al. (2007) alcohol treatment outcome study that centered on research assessment exposure reactivity effects. principal axis factor analysis yielded a unidimensional construct (cronbach's α = 0.80). baseline and six-month audi scores were correlated with concurrent alcohol use (proportion days abstinent, drinks per drinking day, and proportion heavy days, p < .01) in expected directions. parallel process models provided further evidence of the audi's construct validity, as well as its potential as a measure of discrepancy as a mobc. the audi has good psychometric properties and is likely to prove useful for assessing discrepancies between actual and desired alcohol use behavior, which, according to the principles of srt, is essential for behavior change and maintenance.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
background: increasing psychosocial stress may underlie contemporary obesity trends. we investigate cross-sectional and prospective associations between negative life events (nles) and anthropometric indicators, and whether these are explained by lifestyle, depression and sleeping problems.methods: participants in the swedish intergene cohort answered questions about ten types of nles, and indicated whether they occurred during the last year or earlier (2001-04, n = 2706). body mass index (bmi) and waist-to-hip ratio (whr) were measured at baseline, and at follow-up (2014-16, n = 974). numbers of recent and distant nles were related to anthropometric variables using linear models including age, sex, and education, and further adjusted for lifestyle, and psychological problems. prospective models were adjusted for baseline anthropometric values.results: participants reported on average 3.6 types of nles, of which 70% were experienced more than one year ago. at baseline, distant but not recent nles were associated with 0.30 (0.02, 0.58)% higher bmi, and 0.20 (0.06, 0.35)% higher whr, per event. these associations were explained by lifestyle and depression assessed at baseline. recent but not distant nles predicted gain in bmi, 0.19 (0.07, 0.30) kg/m2, and whr, 0.005 (0.002, 0.007), per event and independent of baseline covariates. the largest associations were seen for job insecurity and financial worries, with 0.35 (0.17, 0.52) kg/m2 increase in bmi corresponding to approximately 1.2 kg per event, in both sexes.conclusion: we observed positive associations between nles and weight gain over 13 years including signs of latency and recovery regarding adverse health effects of nles.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
the influence of momentary experiences on compliance has not yet been studied extensively in diary methods such as the experience sampling method (esm). this study investigated to what extent momentary experiences at the moment of responding (hereafter 'beep') can predict compliance in high frequency esm protocols. lagged-analyses were conducted using a pooled dataset of seven studies including 1,318 healthy volunteers and individuals with different mental health conditions. all studies used an esm design of 10 beeps per day over 4 to 6 days. overall compliance was 86% (to beeps where a subject was compliant at the previous beep). results indicated that participants who reported higher positive affect overall were more compliant. feeling disturbed by a beep, being outside the home, medication use, or longer inter-prompt interval decreased the chances of compliance to the subsequent beep. while participants with depression tended to be more compliant, chances to be compliant decreased in the evenings and over the course of the study days. when more beeps were missed consecutively, the chances to miss the subsequent beep increased. findings suggest that disturbance of the beep, being outside the home, medication use, and inter-prompt interval might decrease the chances of compliance to the subsequent beep.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
chronic pain and opioid use are associated with increased risk for suicidal ideation and behaviors (sib) in cross-sectional studies, particularly among individuals who catastrophize about their pain. this study examined the longitudinal association between two styles of pain coping, catastrophizing and hoping/praying, as predictors of subsequent sib, as well as possible mediators of this association among patients with chronic pain receiving long-term opioid therapy. participants (n = 496) were adults with chronic nonmalignant pain on long-term opioid therapy who did not develop an opioid use disorder. participants were assessed for pain coping, suicidal ideation, depression, social support and pain interference at baseline, and were reassessed for si, depression, and pain interference at 6- and 12-month follow-ups. catastrophizing was a significant predictor of increased subsequent sib, whereas hoping/praying did not protect against future sib. the relationship between catastrophizing and future sib was mediated by depression, but not social support or pain interference. in conclusion, catastrophizing was an important predictor of subsequent sib due to its effect on increasing depression among patients with chronic nonmalignant pain receiving long-term opioid therapy. future research should explore the extent to which targeting catastrophizing reduces subsequent depression and suicide risk.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
although health technology assessment (hta) is intended to provide policymakers with objective information, the likelihood that a health decision-maker (hdm) will use this information is associated with their knowledge, role and perception of the hta process. in ghana, policymakers are working towards formalising the use of hta, but hdm knowledge of and attitude towards hta are not known. between march and may 2016, we conducted in-depth interviews and used inductive thematic analysis to explore ghanaian hdms (n = 23) and researchers' (n = 4) perceptions of and barriers to hta and identify ways to promote hta. we compare our findings with those reported in previous studies conducted in low-and-middle-income countries. common themes were that resources, political and cultural factors act as barriers to hta use. recommendations made in previous studies which were also identified in this study included the need for the development of both human and data capacity, allocating funds to hta and stakeholder involvement in hta processes. specific recommendations made by ghanaian hdms and researchers in this study focused on the establishment of an hta body: its location, the constitution of the appraisal team, the type of evidence to appraise and who makes the final decision. the findings provide important information in the context of current planning to institutionalise hta in ghana. addressing the identified barriers will enable policymakers to maximise the chances of realising the expected benefits of hta, as participants who are potential producers and end-users are likely to use what they have contributed to.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
despite the vast literature on the economic gradient of obesity, no study investigates the independent predictive roles of absolute and relative standards of living using a large nationally representative adult sample. this gap limits our ability to discern 'material' and 'psychosocial' pathways to obesity as well as our understanding of the role played by economic inequality in the growing obesity epidemic. using a large and nationally representative mexican dataset, we find that absolute wealth and relative deprivation are independently related to obesity, and that such relationships are patterned by sex. absolute wealth predicts body mass index as well as abdominal obesity according to an inverted-u shape for both sexes, and more markedly so for females. relative deprivation predicts higher body mass index for females and higher waist circumference for both sexes, with highly relatively deprived females being 24.29% (95% ci [24.26, 24.31]) more likely to be obese and 34.46% (95% ci [34.40,34.53]) more likely to be abdominal obese, and highly relatively deprived males being 14.91% (95% ci [14.88,14.93] more likely to be abdominal obese. our results offer a new perspective on the economic gradient of obesity and highlight the potential impact of economic inequality, especially for women. greater awareness of the independent and sex-specific roles of the absolute and relative facets of economic status is needed to better understand and address the obesity epidemic.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier ltd.
objective: there have been reports on postoperative ischemic complications with vascular reconstructive surgery. however, various factors, such as lesions, operative technique, and perioperative treatment, prevent analyzing the causes of ischemic complications in vascular reconstruction surgeries. in the present study, we analyzed the cause of ischemic complications for vascular reconstruction surgeries with the same operator, surgical procedure, and perioperative treatment and without focusing on the lesions.patients and methods: we retrospectively reviewed 66 patients, including 24 aneurysm cases and 42 ischemic disease cases, between 2008 and 2018. the patient group comprised 35 males and 31 females, and the patient mean age was 63.3 (23-87) years. we investigated the postoperative presence of symptomatic and asymptomatic cerebral ischemia on mridwi performed within 4 postoperative days. we conducted a statistical analysis of the ischemic complications and clinical and treatment factors.results: symptomatic cerebral ischemia was detected in 3 cases, whereas asymptomatic ischemic findings were identified in 8 cases. all cases of symptomatic cerebral ischemia involved cerebral aneurysms. results of a univariate analysis revealed an association between symptomatic cerebral ischemia and preoperative antithrombotic therapy (or, 0.07; p =  0.049 (95 %ci; 0.007-0.8794)), clipping (or, 4.8; p =  0.0501 (95 %ci; 1.641-342.9)), and aneurysm (or, 14.16; p =  0.0423 (95 %ci; 0.6991-286.9)). significant associations were found between asymptomatic cerebral ischemia and preoperative antithrombotic therapy [or, 0.2941; p =  0.0514 (95 %ci; 0.08335-1.038)], aneurysms [or, 7.8; p =  0.0146 (95 %ci; 1.414-43.04)] and radial artery grafts (rags) [or, 6.8; p =  0.0192 (95 %ci; 1.410-32.98)]. multivariate analysis identified clipping [or, 5.462; p =  0.045 (95 %ci; 1.01-78.25] and preoperative antithrombotic therapy [or, 0.187; p =  0.037 (95 %ci; 0.004-0.813)] as the risk factors for symptomatic cerebral ischemia. further, a correlation was found between asymptomatic cerebral ischemia and rags [or, 9.244; p =  0.00013 (95 %ci; 2.34-29.44)].conclusion: ischemic complications associated with combined vascular reconstruction surgeries for cerebral aneurysms are possibly associated with procedures related to aneurysmal occlusions. thus, vascular reconstruction surgeries can be performed relatively safely. further, preoperative antithrombotic treatment should be considered, and caution is required for asymptomatic cerebral ischemia in rag cases.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
objectives: there is a scarcity of literature exploring the consequences of failure to extubate (fte) and delayed reintubation (dri) in spine surgery. while it is reasonable to believe that patients who fte or undergo dri after posterior lumbar fusion (plf) and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (tlif) are at risk for graver outcomes, there is minimal data to explicitly support that. the goal of this study was to investigate the morbidity and mortality associated with fte and dri after lumbar spine surgery in a large pool of patients.patients and methods: we conducted a retrospective multicenter study of patients that underwent elective posterior lumbar fusion (plf) and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (tlif) using the american college of surgeons national surgical quality improvement program (acs-nsqip) database from 2006 to 2016. we excluded patients with disseminated cancer, metastatic disease to the neural axis, patient with spinal epidural abscess, and patients with ventilator dependency prior to the operation.results: 57,677 patients from 2006 to 2016 were identified; 55 patients (0.1 %) had fte and 262 patients (0.46 %) had dri. the incidence of pneumonia was 27.2-fold greater in the fte group and septic shock was 63.5-fold greater. all complications listed below are significance to p < 0.001. deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction and cardiac arrest were respectively, 10.4-, 12.2-, 22.8-, and 45.5- fold greater in the fte group. overall complication rate differed significantly between the two groups and were 9.8-fold greater in the fte group. fte was associated with increased, length of stay and all complications except dvt and pulmonary embolism. fte was profoundly associated with severe complications (or 13.0, 95 % ci 7.2-23.5) and mortality (or = 21.5, ci = 7.5-61.0). the dri group had a significantly higher morbidity (or = 71.0, ci = 44.1-114.4), including overall complication (or = 21.2, ci = 16.0-28.0) and severe complications (or = 34.4, ci = 26.1-45.3). the dri group had significantly higher rates of pneumonia (or = 37.0), dvt (or = 9.6) and pulmonary embolism (or = 7.0), septic shock (or = 60.5), myocardial infarction (or = 32.1,) and cardiac arrest (or = 236.4).conclusion: fte and dri were highly predictive of morbidity and mortality. overall, investigations of the effects of fte and dri following spine procedures are lacking. this large multi-center national database review is one of the first to provide insight into the consequences of fte and dri in lumbar fusion cases. future investigation into the consequences and predictors of fte and dri in spine surgery are required.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
the objective of this study was to summarize the available literature describing the presentation, diagnostic evaluation, and management for adults with type 1 and type 2 split spinal cord malformations. a review of the literature was performed using the cinahl, pubmed, embase, and web of science database, alongside all associated bibliographies, to include studies describing type 1 and type 2 split cord malformations diagnosed in patients above the age of 18. all relevant studies of split cord malformations were included, regardless of the year published and terminology used to describe the dysraphism. clinical case series (≥ 2 patients), cohort studies, and review articles comprising adult patients with radiographically diagnosed diastematomyelia, diplomyelia, or dimyelia were included (class of evidence i-iv). a total of 17 unique articles, describing 146 unique adult spinal cord malformation subjects, were included. the most common associated condition was tethered cord syndrome (59.8 %). operative management for symptomatic split cord malformation was performed in 72.3 % of cases. for those with preoperative neurologic deficits, operative management resulted in symptomatic improvement in 96.6 %, compared to 0 % conservative management (p < 0.05). for those with pain alone, operative management resulted in improvement of 91.1 %, compared to 12.5 % conservative management (p < 0.05). to date, this is the only literature review to include all split cord malformations (scm types i and ii) presenting in adulthood, with clinical characteristics, associated conditions, and long-term treatment outcomes.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
objective: to assess the prevalence and risk of adverse perinatal outcomes in early-term (37+0-38+6 weeks), full-term (39+0-40+6 weeks), late-term (41+0-41+6 weeks), and post-term (>42+0 weeks) deliveries with spontaneous labor onset.study design: a population-based cohort with data from the medical birth registry norway (mbrn) and statistics norway (ssb) was conducted. the study population consisted of 665,244 women with cephalic singleton live births at term or post-term with spontaneous labor onset during the period of 1999-2014 in norway. maternal, obstetric, and fetal characteristics were obtained from the mbrn. maternal education data were obtained from the ssb. the prevalence rates of adverse perinatal outcomes for each gestational age (ga) group were estimated. inter-group differences were detected with chi square tests. multivariable regression analysis adjusted for maternal age, educational level, smoking, parity, maternal diabetes, and preeclampsia was used to assess adverse outcome prevalence for early- late-, and post-term births compared to full-term births.results: deliveries at early-term were associated with an increased prevalence of neonatal jaundice, polyhydramnios, small for gestational age (sga) status, respiratory support, and neonatal intensive care unit (nicu) admission compared with deliveries at gas of 39-43 weeks (p < 0.001). low 5-min apgar scores and newborn antibiotic treatment occurred at an increased prevalence in both early-term and post-term infants, relative to the full-term group (p < 0.001). the prevalence of oligohydramnios, meconium-stained amniotic fluid, and newborn birth injuries increased with increasing ga.conclusions: more perinatal morbidity was observed among early-term infants compared to infants with later term deliveries, underscoring the need for cautious management of low-risk early-term deliveries.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
objectives: the adnex (assessment of different neoplasias in the adnexa) model was developed using parameters collected by experienced (level iii) ultrasound examiners. our primary aim was to externally validate the adnex model. then, the discriminatory performance of adnex was compared with the two-step strategy and subjective assessment by an experienced ultrasound operator.methods: between february 2013 and january 2017, all patients who were scheduled for surgery for an adnexal mass at the sant'anna hospital in turin were enrolled in this study. preoperative transvaginal sonography was performed, and the two-step strategy was applied for triage of the adnexal mass. two ultrasound examiners, iota certified, applied the adnex model to all the collected masses based on the ultrasound reports. finally, an experienced operator assigned the subjective assessment based on recorded ultrasound images. the discrimination and calibration performance of adnex were evaluated. the auc was calculated for the basic discrimination between benign and malignant tumours. in addition, aucs were computed for each pair of tumour types using the conditional risk method.results: a total of 577 patients were included in the analysis: the overall prevalence of malignancy was 25 %. with adnex, the auc to differentiate between benign and malignant masses was 0.9111 (95 % ci 0. 8788-0.9389). at risk cut-offs of 1%, 10 % and 30 %, sensitivities were 100 %, 89.6 % and 79.2 %, respectively, and specificities were 2.8 %, 76.2 % and 89.6 %, respectively. discrimination between benign and stage ii-iv tumours was good (auc 0.935). the model had the most difficulties discriminating between borderline and stage i tumours (auc 0.666), and between stages ii-iv invasive and secondary metastatic tumours (auc 0.736). the polytomous discrimination index (pdi) was 0.61 for adnex, whereas pdi for random performance would be 0.25. adnex proved to be equally or more accurate than the subjective assessment or the two-step strategy in the discrimination between benign and malignant adnexal masses.conclusions: the adnex model could probably be successfully applied when an expert examiner is not available and, therefore both a subjective assessment and the two-step strategy cannot be performed.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
objectives: many providers often use terms such as "this might hurt", or "you might feel pressure" during exams with the intention to be compassionate and to help decrease discomfort. no evidence exists to support this practice. our objective was to evaluate the impact of the use of words with unpleasant emotional connotation on perceived discomfort at the time of vaginal speculum examination.study design: a randomized trial was performed on premenopausal women undergoing a routine well-woman speculum exam. 120 total patients were included and randomized into one of two groups; phrases with unpleasant connotation (n = 60) vs. objective phrases (n = 60). during the speculum exam, the provider used either phrases with unpleasant connotation (i.e., "you are going to feel a lot of pressure"), or objective phrases (i.e., "i am going to introduce the speculum"). following the exam, patients were asked to rate the level of discomfort/pain experienced during the exam and to compare their actual experience to their anticipated experience. descriptive statistics were performed. chi-square and independent samples t-test were used with a significance of p < 0.05.results: patients in the phrases with unpleasant connotation group had significantly higher pain scores than the objective phrases group (2.9 ± 1.5 vs. 0.8 ± 0.8 (p < .01)). the majority of the patients in the phrases with unpleasant connotation group reported the exam "as painful as anticipated" or "more painful than anticipated" whereas the majority of the patients in the objective phrases group reported the exam as "pain free" or "less painful than anticipated".conclusion: healthcare providers performing speculum examinations should use objective statements and avoid the use of phrases with unpleasant connotation with the intention to minimize perceived pain during exams.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background: offspring of individuals with bipolar disorder (bd) are at greater risk for developing bd. adiponectin (adp), a hormone produced by adipocytes, plays a central role in energy homeostasis, insulin sensitivity and inflammatory response. adp is negatively correlated with body mass index (bmi) and is abnormal in patients with bd. understanding the role of adp among these offspring may help identify those likely to develop bd. the primary objective of this paper was to compare adp levels among offspring of individuals with bd (symptomatic [so], and asymptomatic [ao]) to offspring of healthy parents (hc). the role of adp on cognition and roi-based gray matter values in so and ao offspring was secondarily assessed and compared to hc.methods: a cross-sectional study was conducted in china by the guangzhou brain hospital in offspring of individuals with and without bd. participants underwent neuropsychiatric and cognitive assessments, mri scans and blood analyses. bmi z-scores (zbmi) were calculated adjusting for age and gender.results: analyses included 117 participants (hc = 48, ao = 36, so = 33). no significant differences were observed in plasma levels of adp optical density (od) among hc, ao and so participants. no significant interaction effects on cognition were observed between symptomatic status and adp od, symptomatic status and bmi z-score, nor symptomatic status, zbmi and adp od. multivariate tests revealed a significant interaction between offspring symptomatic status, adp od, and zbmi on gray matter volume in the right cerebellum (p = 0.05).conclusion: these findings suggest that an interaction exists between bmi and cns structure.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
purpose: to evaluate adverse events of fluorescein angiography (fa) in pediatric patients.design: single-institution retrospective chart review.participants: patients 0 to 18 years of age who underwent fa between january 2010 and december 2015 at a single institution in the united states.methods: pediatric patients who underwent fa by 3 surgeons were included in the study. patients with fewer than 24 hours of documented follow-up were excluded. significant adverse events within 24 hours of fa were evaluated. detailed intraoperative and perioperative physiological parameters, including heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, and ventilation parameters, in inpatients undergoing simultaneous examination under anesthesia were reviewed. peri-injection effects of fa were evaluated by 2-tailed paired t test comparison of mean 5-minute preinjection and 5-minute postinjection physiological data.main outcome measures: significant adverse events associated with fa.results: one hundred fifteen patients with a total of 214 fa examinations were included. no significant adverse events were associated directly with fa. comparison of mean 5-minute preinjection and postinjection physiologic parameters in 27 patients who underwent intravenous fa during eua did not reveal significant changes associated with fa. a significant difference was found in average patient age between inpatient (2.5 years) and outpatient (10.7 years) fa (p < 0.00001). the youngest patients who underwent successful fa were 3.8 years old in the outpatient setting and 32 weeks' postmenstrual age in the inpatient setting. patients younger than 3.8 years accounted for most (77.6%; n = 85) inpatient fa examinations. excluding patients with a need or likely need for laser or surgery, the reasons for inpatient fa in patients older than 3.8 years included the lack of availability of outpatient ultra-widefield fa (uwfa) and more challenging situations in patients with developmental delay.conclusions: fluorescein angiography was not found to be associated directly with systemic adverse events in pediatric patients in this study. younger patients more commonly were found to require an inpatient fa, whereas older patients older than 4 years underwent outpatient uwfa.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier inc.
purpose: mutations in the cln2 gene lead to a neurodegenerative and blinding lysosomal storage disorder: late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofucinosis, also known as "cln2 disease." the purpose of the current study was to characterize the evolution of cln2-associated retinal manifestations using the weill cornell batten scale (wcbs) and the age association of the retinal degeneration using central subfield thickness (cst) measurements and then correlate these findings with fundus photography and oct to determine a critical period for retinal intervention.design: retrospective, single-center cohort.participants: eighty-four eyes of 42 treatment-naïve patients with cln2 disease.methods: clinical records, fundus photographs, and oct imaging for patients with cln2 disease collected during examinations under anesthesia were reviewed. imaging was categorized per wcbs criteria by 3 masked graders.main outcome measures: cln2-associated retinopathy assessed using wcbs scores, fundus photographs, and oct imaging, correlated with patient age.results: eighty-four eyes of 42 patients had baseline fundus photographs, with baseline oct in 31 eyes of 16 patients. fundus photographs were obtained serially for 26 eyes of 13 patients, and serial oct scans were obtained in 10 eyes of 5 patients. at baseline, bilateral wcbs scores were highly correlated for oct and fundus photographs (r = 0.96 and 0.82, respectively). central subfield thickness was negatively correlated with left and right eye wcbs oct scores (r = -0.92 and -0.83, respectively; p < 0.001) and fundus photograph scores (r = -0.80 and -0.83, respectively; p < 0.001). oct thickness was symmetrical between each eye. baseline oct data with age fit using a sigmoid function demonstrated a period of accelerated loss between 48 and 72 months of age.conclusions: retinal degeneration associated with cln2 disease manifests as a progressive, symmetrical decline, which appears to accelerate during a critical period at 48 to 72 months of age, suggesting intervention with retina-specific cln2 gene therapy should occur ideally before or as early as possible within this critical period. the wcbs is a valuable tool and is highly correlated with the extent of retinal degeneration observed in oct or fundus photographs; by using the fellow eye as a control, this grading scale can be used to monitor the effect of cln2 gene therapy in future trials.copyright © 2020 american academy of ophthalmology. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
in this study, the feasibility and efficacy of acceptance and commitment therapy in daily life (act-dl), act augmented with a daily life application, was investigated in 55 emerging adults (age 16 to 25) with subthreshold depressive and/or psychotic complaints. participants were randomized to act-dl (n = 27) or to active control (n = 28), with assessments completed at pre- and post-measurement and 6- and 12-months follow-up. it took up to five (act-dl) and 11 (control) months to start group-based interventions. participants attended on average 4.32 out of 5 act-dl sessions. on the app, they filled in on average 69 (48%) of signal-contingent beep-questionnaires, agreed to 15 (41%) of offered beep-exercises, initiated 19 on-demand exercises, and rated act-dl metaphors moderately useful. relative to active control, interviewer-rated depression scores decreased significantly in act-dl participants (p = .027). decreases in self-reported depression, psychotic-related distress, anxiety, and general psychopathology did not differ between conditions. act-dl participants reported increased mean na (p = .011), relative to active controls. mean pa did not change in either group, nor did psychological flexibility. act-dl is a feasible intervention, although adaptations in future research may improve delivery of and compliance with the intervention. there were mixed findings for its efficacy in reducing subthreshold psychopathology in emerging adults. dutch trial register no.: ntr3808.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
aim: the impact of clinical characteristics for predicting patterns of ventricular involvement in arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (arvc) are not well defined. the aims of this study were to characterize different patterns of ventricular involvement in patients with arvc and to stratify them based on clinical characteristics exercise and underlying genetic mutations.methods: sixty-four patients with definite arvc from the swiss arvc registry were enrolled. right and left ventricular functions were assessed at baseline and most recent follow-up. all patients received genetic testing. serum high-sensitivity cardiac troponin t (hs-ctnt) and n-terminal of pro-brain natriuretic peptide (nt-probnp) were determined at baseline.results: thirty-five patients (55%) had isolated right ventricular (rv) involvement, 12 patients (19%) had biventricular (biv) involvement at baseline and 17 patients (26%) had no left ventricular (lv) involvement at baseline, but revealed new onset lv involvement at mean follow-up of 7.5 years. patients with biv involvement at baseline harbored significantly more desmoplakin and multiple mutations and patients with new-onset lv involvement at follow-up frequently showed non-desmosomal mutations. patients engaging in competitive sports more often showed lv involvement during follow-up. baseline hs-ctnt and nt-probnp levels were higher in patients developing biv involvement.conclusion: multiple mutations are more common in arvc patients with biv involvement. competitive exercise is associated with disease progression resulting in biv involvement. hs-ctnt and nt-probnp are elevated in patients with biv involvement and may help to identify arvc patients at risk for developing biv disease.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
objective: compare driving capacity of individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) and healthy controls (hc) using a driving simulation program.methods: a prospective study was performed on individuals with als who reported they were still driving, and a group of hcs. demographic data included age and gender. assessment included cognitive assessments (montreal cognitive assessment [moca] and als cognitive behavioral scale [als-cbs]); gait speed (m/s); als functional rating scale-revised total score (alsfrs-r); and simulated driving assessment (lane change task [lct]). the lct is a simple assessment tool which simulates the visual, cognitive, and motor demands of driving to detect at-risk drivers and uses distractions (secondary tasks) to quantify the performance loss on the primary task (lane changes).results: twenty-eight individuals with als (22 males, mean age 64 years) and 20 hcs (7 males, mean age 59 years) were studied. individuals with mild to moderate als (alsfrs-r mean 36.2) were older, had mild cognitive difficulty (moca 24 vs 27; als-cbs 14.19 [sd 3.85]) and mobility decline (gait speed 1.1 vs 1.4 m/s) compared to hc. driving assessment using the lct found no differences in baseline scores or during motor, cognitive, or visually distracting conditions.conclusions: individuals with als with mild to moderate disease progression, with cognitive and motor weakness still demonstrate similar driving capacity to hcs using a driving simulation task. driving assessment needs to be expanded longitudinally and perhaps with more robust measures to more precisely identify types of driving challenges that lead to cessation of driving in individuals with als.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
hexavalent chromium (cr6+) is a commonly found heavy metal at polluted groundwater sites. in this study, the effectiveness of cr6+ bioreduction by the chromium-reducing bacteria was evaluated to remediate cr6+-contaminated groundwater. microcosms were constructed using indigenous microbial consortia from a cr6+-contaminated aquifer as the inocula, and slow-releasing emulsified polycolloid-substrate (es), cane molasses (cm), and nutrient broth (nb) as the primary substrates. the genes responsible for the bioreduction of cr6+ and variations in bacterial diversity were evaluated using metagenomics assay. complete cr6+ reduction via the biological mechanism was observed within 80 days using cm as the carbon source under anaerobic processes with the increased trivalent chromium (cr3+) concentrations. cr6+ removal efficiencies were 83% and 59% in microcosms using es and nb as the substrates, respectively. increased bacterial communities associated with cr6+ bioreduction was observed in microcosms treated with cm and es. decreased bacterial communities were observed in nb microcosms. compared to es, cm was more applicable by indigenous cr6+ reduction bacteria and resulted in effective cr6+ bioreduction, which was possibly due to the growth of cr6+-reduction related bacteria including sporolactobacillus, clostridium, and ensifer. while nb was applied for specific bacterial selection, it might not be appropriate for electron donor application. these results revealed that substrate addition had significant impact on microbial diversities, which affected cr6+ bioreduction processes. results are useful for designing a green and sustainable bioreduction system for cr6+-polluted groundwater remediation.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
background and objectives: glycemic control with unannounced meals is the major challenge for artificial pancreas. in this study, we described the performance and safety of learning-type model predictive control (l-mpc) for artificial pancreas challenged by an unannounced meal in type 1 diabetes (t1d).methods: this closed-loop (cl) system was tested in 29 t1d patients at one site in a 4 h inpatient open-label study. participants used an l-mpc cl system for 6 days after 2-day system identification using open-loop (ol) insulin system. during the cl period, the l-mpc system was started from 8:00 am to noon each day. at 9:00 am, each participant consumed 50 g of carbohydrates with no prandial insulin bolus. at 9:30 am on cl-day 4 or cl-day 6, participants rode bicycles for 20 minutes or drank 50 ml of beer, in a random order.results: as the primary outcome, tir on cl-day 3 was 65.2±23.3%, which was 9.8 points higher (95% ci 1.8 to 17.8; p = 0.019) than that on cl-day 1. the time of glucose >10 mmol/l was decreased by 11.0% (95% ci -18.7 to 3.3; p = 0.007), and mean glucose level was decreased by 1.1 mmol/l (95% ci -1.1 to 0.5; p = 0.000). the total daily insulin dosage showed no significant difference (-0.1u, 95% ci -1.34 to 1.32; p = 0.982). compared with ol-day1 with a postprandial bolus, the tir was increased by 13.7 points (95% ci 1.4 to 26.0; p = 0.030), the time of glucose >10 mmol/l and the mean glucose level were also decreased. compared with the exercise day (cl-day e, 62.0 ± 23.3%; p = 0.347) or alcohol day (cl-day a, 64.0 ± 23.6%; p = 0.756), there was no statistically significant difference in terms of tir, time of glucose >10 mmol/l and mean glucose level. no severe hypoglycemic events occurred and hypoglycemic episodes were not increased by using closed-loop insulin system.conclusion: the l-mpc cl insulin system achieved good glycemic control challenged by an unannounced meal.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
introduction: clinical alert systems (cas) have been used to analyze deviations from hospital standards in the electronic medical record to identify missing documentations and send alerts to the appropriate providers to increase adherence to required elements. to improve compliance, an alert system for documentation of the immediate preoperative assessment (ipoa) was implemented at our institution in august 2018 with the goal of improving documentation compliance rates. we hypothesized that implementation of this alert system would increase the compliance of on-time documentation of the ipoa.methods: an initial data query in our institutional data warehouse was made for all patients who had a completed anesthetic during our study period. this date range corresponded to 6 months before and after august 2nd, 2018, the date when the ipoa alert was implemented and the anesthesiology department. the following analyses were performed: testing the proportion of cases compliant with on-time documentation of the ipoa pre- versus post-implementation for the full cohort and among subsets of interest, testing the time when the ipoa was completed relative to anesthesia end, and testing whether time of day of when surgery occurred had an impact on the time when the ipoa was completed relative to the drapes off/ipoa alert sent time. the proportion of compliance for pre- versus post-implementation was tested by chi-square test.results: through retrospective chart review of electronic patient records, 47,417 cases matched our inclusion criteria of patients that had a completed anesthetic between february 2nd, 2018 to february 2nd, 2019. in total, we excluded 5132 cases. the compliance rate of ipoa completion increased from 76% to 88% (p < 0.001) before and after the alert implementation date. in the initial month following alert implementation, the compliance rate immediately increased to 83% and stayed in the high 80's for the balance of the study period.conclusion: in summary, we demonstrate that automated clinical alert systems operating via a single page notification can improve the compliance rate for documentation of key anesthesia events and that this observation is sustained six months after the implementation date. furthermore, improvement in compliance is highest shorter cases and cases that occur early in the day. this study shows promising results in the use of automatic cas system alerts to help hospitals meet the center for medicare and medicaid services (cms) and the joint commission (tjc) standards.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
objective: to observe the efficacy of distal tibial tuberosity high tibial osteotomy in treating medial compartment osteoarthritis of the knee. in the experiment, a medical image enhancement algorithm based on shear wave domain improved gamma correction was implemented to process medical images in order to diagnose patients more effectively.methods: sixty-five patients (13 males and 52 females) were included in the study who were treated with distal tibial tuberosity high tibial osteotomy, and the mean age of the patients was 63±6 years (range 49-73). all patients received x-ray and mri before surgery. we carefully studied and analyzed the findings, mri findings and medical characteristics after using the shearlet domain to improve the gamma correction method in order to enhance diagnostic accuracy. the improved image help us to judge the damage of the medial and lateral compartment more accurately. weight bearing line (wbl) and femora-tibial angle (fta) were measured to evaluate the lower limb alignment before and 12 months after surgery. visual analogue scale (vas) scores, hospital for special surgery (hss) scores, the westrn ontario and mcmaster universities (womac) scores were recorded to evaluate knee pain and function before surgery, 3 months and 6 months after surgery.results: the x-ray and mri scans of the patients were analyzed. after the shear wave shearlet domain is implemented, the image effect is significantly improved. 12 months after surgery, wbl was improved from 16.34±2.18% to 60.32±2.89% (p<0.05), fta was improved from 171.17±1.87° to 179.83±2.14° (p<0.05). at 3 months and 12 months after surgery, vas, hss and womac scores were significantly improved compared with baseline (p<0.05).conclusion: distal tibial tuberosity high tibial osteotomy is able to correct varus deformity, relieve knee pain and the functional dysfunction, indicating which had a significant short-term efficacy. the shear wave shearlet domain incorporates the gamma correction method to effectively preserve the image details, which to achieve a more accurate diagnosis, and help us to judge the damage of the medial and lateral compartment more accurately.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
background: tricuspid regurgitation is treated by valve repair or replacement. however, these methods have limitations, and alternative treatment methods are therefore required.objectives: in this study, a new method of tricuspid valve treatment using artificial membrane insertion is analyzed. we performed tricuspid valve simulations using an artificial membrane inserted into the right ventricle (rv) or right atrium (ra).methods: we use the lattice boltzmann method with the immersed boundary condition to model the structural motion of the valve leaflet. the effect of membrane insertion is analyzed in terms of the stress, force, and impulse on the valve leaflet, along with the velocity, pressure, jet volume, and reynolds stress in the flow field.results: while the use of either membrane (ra or rv) leads to improved valve closure relative to the use of no membrane, the rv membrane is more effective than the ra membrane in achieving improved valve closure. in addition, a larger membrane area with a shorter distance between the leaflet and membrane increases membrane efficacy.conclusion: our results suggest that membrane insertion can form an effective new method for the treatment of tricuspid regurgitation.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier b.v.
the aim of this study is to test the capability of the anaerobic digestion model n1 (adm1) to reproduce data from full-scale digesters operated in a wastewater resource recovery facility (wrrf) where both thermal hydrolysis and codigestion with industrial waste are carried out. furthermore, the potential uses of the model in a wrrf are also described, with particular relevance for plant engineers/operators. the model capability was calibrated and validated with data from full-scale digesters from the mapocho-trebal wrrf (biofactoría) in santiago, chile. a success simulation rate, defined as the percentage of experimental values of a certain variable that lies within the simulation band given by a simulation tolerance established by the user/operator, was established to test the capability of the model as objectively as possible. regarding the full-scale digester fed with thermally pretreated mixed sludge, success rates of 65% for biogas production and 60-100% for other variables were achieved. regarding the full-scale digester in codigestion mode, the model had a success rate of approximately 60% for predicting the biogas flow for the whole evaluation period, while for the other variables, values between 70 and 100% were attained. the lowest success rates were observed for the volatile fatty acid (vfa) concentration in the digestate. despite the lack of available data and the number of assumptions that had to be made, the model was demonstrated to be capable of reproducing the behavior of the full-scale reactors. a proper, up-to-date, calibrated and validated model can aid in the decision-making process in a wrrf, for instance, in determining some unmeasured inlet conditions, in improving the resilience of the process and in managing the incorporation of a new cosubstrate into the plant, among others.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
as phosphorus is a non-renewable resource mainly used to produce fertilizers and helps to provide food all over the world, the proper management of its reserves is a global concern since it is expected to become scarcer in the near future. in this work we assessed two different sludge line configurations aiming for p extraction and recovery before anaerobic digestion and compared them with the classical configuration. this study has been performed by simulation with the model bnrm2 integrated in the software package desass 7.1. configuration 1 was based on the production of a po4-enriched stream from sludge via elutriation in the primary thickeners, while configuration 2 was based on the wasstrip® process and its po4-enriched stream was mechanically obtained with dynamic thickeners. in both alternatives recovery was enhanced by promoting poly-phosphate (poly-p) extraction under anaerobic conditions, for which both configurations were fully evaluated in a full-scale wwtp. both were also optimized to maximize phosphorus extraction. their costs and life cycles were also analysed. the novelty of this research lies in the lack of literature about the integral evaluation of pre-anaerobic digestion p recovery from wastewaters. this study included a holistic approach and an optimization study of both alternatives plus their economic and environmental aspects. in configuration 1, the po4-p load in the recovery stream reached 43.1% of the total influent p load and reduced uncontrolled p-precipitation in the sludge line up to 52.9%. in configuration 2, extraction was 48.2% of the influent p load and it reduced precipitation by up to 60.0%. despite configuration 1's lower phosphorus recovery efficiency, it had a 23.0% lower life cycle cost and a 14.2% lower global warming impact per hm3 of treated influent than configuration 2. configuration 1 also reduced the taec by 17.6% and global warming impact by 2.0% less than configuration 0.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
a novel wastewater treatment process, which couples chemically enhanced primary sedimentation (ceps) of sewage with acidogenic fermentation of sludge in tandem, has recently been developed to improve the removal of pollutants and nutrients, and recover valuable resources such as phosphorus and organics. this study represented the first laboratory-based examination on the level and removal of the emerging contaminants, including retinoids (i.e., retinoic acids (ras) and their metabolites) and oestrogenic endocrine disrupting chemicals (edcs; e.g., 4-nonylphenol, bisphenol a, etc.), in sewage, sludge and its supernatant during this novel wastewater treatment process. the results showed that 65% of retinoids and 73% of edcs were removed from sewage after aluminum (al) based ceps, while 80% of retinoids and 72% of edcs were removed after iron (fe) based ceps. after acidogenic fermentation of the ceps sludge, 50% and 58% of retinoids, and 50% and 47% of edcs were further removed in the supernatants of al-sludge and fe-sludge, respectively. while there were comparable removals for these two classes of emerging contaminants during al- and fe-based ceps and sludge fermentation, fe-based ceps of sewage and sludge fermentation should be preferentially considered, given the relatively lower production of fe-sludge and lower accumulation of retinoids in fe-sludge. the levels of retinoids and edcs in the supernatant and sludge changed during acidogenic fermentation of fe-sludge. the removals of at-4-oxo-ra (i.e., the dominant retinoid) and bisphenol a (i.e., the dominant edc) in the supernatant followed the pseudo first-order reaction model, with a half-life of 1.62 days (in the first two days) and 1.55 days (in the whole experiment of seven days), respectively. the results demonstrated the effective removal of emerging contaminants from the sewage and the supernatant during the ceps and acidogenic sludge fermentation.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
during advanced oxidation treatment for enhancing sludge dewaterability, the peptide chains of protein can be decomposed into amino acids. protein exhibits a great impact on sewage sludge dewaterability. however, the role of amino acids in sludge dewatering remains unclear. in this study, among the 23 types of amino acids investigated, tryptophane (trp) and lysine (lys) were identified as the key amino acids affecting sludge dewaterability during fenton oxidation treatment. the content of lysine showed positive correlations with capillary suction time (cst), specific resistance to filtration (srf), and bound water content, and the concentrations of total protein, low molecular weight protein, amines and amides, and 3-turn helix of proteinaceous compounds in bound extracellular polymeric substances (eps), while the content of tryptophane showed negative correlations with the above parameters. the amino acids may be sourced from damage of the membrane and ribosomal proteins by hydroxyl radicals, and the peptide bonds connected with tryptophane were more inclined to be decomposed than other amino acids. particularly, more amino acids of tryptophane can result in more hydrophobic interaction, and less necessary energy barrier for aggregation of particles. as such, regulating protein degradation towards production of tryptophane may be related with enhanced sludge dewaterability by fenton oxidation treatment.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
objective: circumferential pulmonary vein isolation (cpvi) is a common procedure that is performed on patients with atrial fibrillation (af). however, af may recur in some patients after treatment. this study assesses the association between autonomic modulation and late recurrence after cpvi and between autonomic modulation and ablation lesion quality.methods: we prospectively enrolled 72 patients with paroxysmal af who underwent cpvi from january 2017 to january 2018. pre- and post-ablation 24 h electrocardiograms were performed to document heart rate variability (hrv), which represents cardiac autonomic function. the intraablation force-time integral (fti) was used to indicate the extent of ablation injury. patients were followed up for 12 months after the procedure and cases of af recurrence were recorded.results: changes in hrv decreased after the procedure, which was correlated with fti (δsdnn: r = -0.26, p = 0.03; δrmmsd: r = -0.28, p = 0.02; δlnhf: r = -0.22, p = 0.04; δlnlf: r = -0.29, p = 0.01). patients without af recurrence had more pronounced δlf (-21.84 ± 33.21% vs. -8.68 ± 34.59%, p = 0.01) and δhf (-17.26 ± 16.61% vs. -1.28 ± 9.81%, p = 0.01) than patients with recurrence. multivariate regression analysis showed that both δlf (hr: 1.07, p = 0.04) and δhf (hr: 1.11, p = 0.01) were associated with af recurrence. after adjusting for fti, δlf was no longer associated with af recurrence (hr: 1.05, p = 0.10). δhf remained associated with af recurrence (hr: 1.08, p = 0.03), but the correlation coefficient was decreased (hr: 1.08, p = 0.03).conclusion: decreased autonomic nerve function is a valid predictor of af recurrence and is indicated by the extent of ablation injury, which is independently associated with af recurrence after cpvi.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier inc.
background: screening and early diagnosis of mitral regurgitation (mr) are crucial for preventing irreversible progression of mr. in this study, we developed and validated an artificial intelligence (ai) algorithm for detecting mr using electrocardiography (ecg).methods: this retrospective cohort study included data from two hospital. an ai algorithm was trained using 56,670 ecgs from 24,202 patients. internal validation of the algorithm was performed with 3174 ecgs of 3174 patients from one hospital, while external validation was performed with 10,865 ecgs of 10,865 patients from another hospital. the endpoint was the diagnosis of significant mr, moderate to severe, confirmed by echocardiography. we used 500 hz ecg raw data as predictive variables. additionally, we showed regions of ecg that have the most significant impact on the decision-making of the ai algorithm using a sensitivity map.results: during the internal and external validation, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the ai algorithm using a 12-lead ecg for detecting mr was 0.816 and 0.877, respectively, while that using a single-lead ecg was 0.758 and 0.850, respectively. in the 3157 non-mr individuals, those patients that the ai defined as high risk had a significantly higher chance of development of mr than the low risk group (13.9% vs. 2.6%, p < 0.001) during the follow-up period. the sensitivity map showed the ai algorithm focused on the p-wave and t-wave for mr patients and qrs complex for non-mr patients.conclusions: the proposed ai algorithm demonstrated promising results for mr detecting using 12-lead and single-lead ecgs.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
in this paper, comparison of ecotoxicological and herbicidal effect of newly synthesized n‑[(phosphono)(aryl)methyl]glycines 1a-g (c-substituted glyphosate derivatives) with pure glyphosate (n-phosphonomethylglycine) (2) was demonstrated. all of tested glyphosate derivatives (1a-g) in contrast to glyphosate, were found to be completely safe for oat (avena sativa) and classified as not harmful for marine bacteria aliivibrio fischeri. compounds 1a-g were also found rather harmless to radish (raphanus sativus) as compared to n-phosphonomethylglycine, but they were moderately toxic against freshwater crustaceans heterocypris incongruens. one of synthesized compounds, namely n-[(phosphono)(4-hydroxyphenyl)methyl]glycine (1f) was found to possess stronger herbicidal properties against gallant soldier (galinsoga parviflora) and common sorrel (rumex acetosa) when compared to pure glyphosate and demonstrated total death of these weeds being ranked 1 in the european weed research council (ewrc) scale. considering lower phytotoxicity of compound 1f against cultivated plants and tested microorganisms when compared to pure glyphosate, this aminophosphonate may be good candidate for further, more comprehensive study toward its agrochemical application, especially that this active agent demonstrated much stronger herbicidal properties than n-phosphonomethylglycine.copyright © 2020 the authors. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
extremely low-frequency electromagnetic fields (elf-emfs) present a kind of common non-ionizing radiation in public and occupational environments. previous studies have suggested that elf-emf exposure might have a potential impact on co-carcinogenesis and the progression of tumorigenesis by inducing cell proliferation. however, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. in this study, we investigated the possible role of the sphingosine-1-phosphate (s1p)-related pathway in regulating cell proliferation induced by 50-hz, 0.4-mt magnetic-field (mf) exposure. the results showed that mf exposure significantly promoted sphingosine kinase 1 (sphk1) activity, and that inhibition of the sphk1-s1p-s1p receptor (s1pr) pathway could remarkably reverse mf-induced cell proliferation. additionally, we could infer indirectly from an exogenous-s1p experiment that mf-induced s1p might act on s1pr1/3 in a paracrine and/or autocrine manner to mediate the proliferation effect. notably, although the mf activated the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (erk) and protein kinase b (akt) pathways, the sphk1-s1p-s1pr1/3 cascade regulated mf-induced proliferation by activating the erk rather than the akt pathway. taken together, the findings of this study indicated that the sphk1-s1p-s1pr1/3 cascade played an important role in mf-induced proliferation by mediating the erk signaling pathway, which could bring new insights into understanding and preventing the adverse effects of mfs.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
conversion of perfluoroalkyl acid (pfaa) precursors in the environment has been a hotspot research in recent years. this study firstly determined the spatial distribution of pfaas and their precursors including 8:2 fluorotelomer unsaturated acid (8:2 ftuca), perfluorooctane sulfoneamide (fosa), and diperfluorooctane sulfonamido ethanol-based phosphate (di-sampap), then investigated the conversion of the potential precursors in the seawater and sewage treatment plants (stps) effluents. the results indicated that the target pollutants showed a typical concentration gradient from nearshore to offshore. and the obviously increased concentration of perfluorinated carboxylic acids (△[pfcas]) after oxidation treatment can verify the existence of pfaa precursors in the seawater and stp effluents. the concentrations of pfcas with carbon atom numbers 4-9 (pfcac4-c9) revealed the most increase. moreover, the levels of △[pfcas] and the ratios of △[pfcas] to their concentration before oxidation (△[pfca]/[pfca]before oxidation) indicated obvious spatial variations in the seawater and stp effluents. the higher levels of △[pfcac4-c12] and the lower ratios of ∑△[pfcac4-c12]/∑[pfaa]before oxidation were observed in the stp effluents, which implied that precursors might be decomposed during the sewage treatment process. these results suggested the stp effluents might have an important effect on the pfaas levels of seawater.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
release of huge quantities of toxic hexavalent chromium (cr6+) owing to its widespread use in several industrial and mining activities is a major environmental concern in 21st century. the present in situ vegetation analysis at three study sites gives insight on cr hyperaccumulation potentiality which evaluates the phytoremediation ability of abundant native weeds growing in and around the cr contaminated effluent discharge site at south kaliapani chromite mine area, odisha, india. moreover, the study measure the relative bioconcentration of chromium in different plant parts with analysis of uptake related phytoremediation indices viz. bioconcentration factor (bcf), transportation index (ti), translocation factor (tf) and metal extraction ratio (mer) to assess hyperaccumulation potentiality. vegetation study near mine effluent discharge site (site-1) reported maximum abundance for diectomis fastigiata (8.25) followed by vernonia cinerea (7.6) with ti values 56 and 657 respectively. in site-2 (uncultivated barren land near site-1), croton sparsiflorus showed maximum abundance (6.7) followed by tephrosia purpurea (5.8) with ti values 95.2 and 87.8 respectively whereas kyllinga monocephala reported maximum abundance (6.1) followed by fern sps. (5.9) with ti values 62.4 and 81.1 respectively in site-3 (a swampy land flooded with chemically treated mine waste effluent). the highest cr concentrations was recorded in roots of diectomis fastigiata (2371 mg/kg dry matter) and shoot of vernonia cinerea (5500 mg/kg dry matter) indicating their cr phytoremediation potential. moreover, the study provides the early indicative tools for detecting native cr hyperaccumulators growing in an in situ environment with an in situ phytoremediation perspective.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
the primary purpose of this study was to systematically explore the complete metabolic pathway and tolerance mechanism of strain dnb-s1 to dibutyl phthalate (dbp), and the effect of dbp on energy metabolism of dnb-s1. here, dnb-s1, a strain of pseudomonas sp. that was highly effective in degrading dbp, was identified, and differentially expressed metabolites and metabolic networks of dbp were studied. the results showed that the differentially expressed metabolites were mainly aromatic compounds and lipid compounds, with only a few toxic intermediate metabolites. it speculated that phthalic acid, salicylic acid, 3-hydroxybenzoate acid, 3-carboxy-cis, cis-muconate, fumarypyravate were intermediate metabolites of dbp. their up-regulation indicated that there were two metabolic pathways in the degradation of dbp (protocatechuate pathway and gentisate pathway), which had been verified by peak changes at 290 nm, 320 nm, 330 nm, and 375 nm in the enzymatic method. also, aspartate, gsh, and other metabolites were up-regulation, indicating that dnb-s1 had a high tolerance to dbp and maintained cell homeostasis, which was also one of the essential reasons to ensure the efficient degradation of dbp. altogether, this study firstly proposed two pathways to degrade dbp and comprehensively explored the effect of dbp on the metabolic function of dnb-s1, which enriched the study of microbial metabolism of organic pollutants, and which provided a basis for the application of metabolomics.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
the present study aimed to evaluate the effects of different waterborne sublethal concentrations of ag-nps lc50 (96h) on common carp cyprinus carpio using a multi-biomarker approach. fish (9.22 ± 0.12 g) were stocked in fiberglass tanks and exposed to concentrations of 0 (control), 12.5%, 25% and 50% of ag-nps lc50 (96h) or ag-no3 lc50 (96h), as the source of ag+ ion, for a period of 21 days. at the end of study, tissue ag contents were significantly (p < 0.05) higher and different in fish exposed to concentrations of 25% and 50% compared to the control. the numbers of rbcs, hematocrit, and mchc values at these concentrations differed significantly in respect to the control. no significant effects were observed for hemoglobin, mch, and mcv values. the number of wbcs was significantly higher at concentrations of 12.5% and 25% compared to the control. meanwhile, the percentage of neutrophils significantly elevated at concentrations of 25% and 50%. serum total protein at concentration of 50% detected significantly lower than that of 12.5% or the control. the serum albumin and globulin levels significantly declined in ag-nps-exposed groups versus the control. the serum ach50 and total immunoglobulins showed significantly lower values in the treatments of 25% and 50% compared to the control. the serum glucose, cortisol, alt, and alp values significantly escalated upon ag-nps exposure. the serum sod and cat showed enhanced activity in the treatment of 12.5% vice versa significantly diminished at concentrations of 25% and 50% compared to the control. the exposure to the concentrations of 25% and 50% significantly dwindled the lysozyme activity and total immunoglobulin levels in skin mucus. in conclusion, sublethal concentrations of ag-nps lc50 (96h) impaired fish health status at higher concentrations and 12.5% of ag-nps lc50 (96h) was presumably safe for common carp aquaculture.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
emerging evidence indicated that disruption of circadian rhythm (cr) induced metabolic disorders, including dysregulation of energy homeostasis and lipid dysfunction, which was associated with ambient fine particulate matter (pm2.5) as well. however, the role and mechanism of cr in pm2.5-mediated metabolic disorder remain unknown. in the present study, we investigated circadian rhythmic characteristics and explored the effect of pm2.5 on oscillating clock of lipid function and metabolism in white adipose tissue (wat) and brown adipose tissue (bat). c57bl/6 mice were exposed to pm2.5 in a whole-body inhalational exposure system. after 10 weeks, the expression of clock-related genes exhibits more robust cr in bat than wat, with the acrophase of per2 in both types of adipose tissue being significantly decreased at zt12 and bmal1 increased at zt0/24 in wat in response to pm2.5 exposure. in addition, both cr pattern and expression levels of sirt1 got significantly inhibited by pm2.5 exposure in wat, accompanied with adipose dysfunction evidenced by inhibited pattern and expression levels of adipokines at the same zt time points. finally, a similar phase right shift from zt4 to zt12 in both sirt3 and ucp1 in bat was induced by pm2.5 exposure. these findings indicate that disruption of the cr in adipose tissues could be an important way by which pm2.5 exposure induces metabolic disorder and provide potential targets for further investigation.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
the aim of the study is to model concentrations of selected biogenic amines in various fish species (atlantic salmon, atlantic cod, striped catfish) bought in retail stores in central europe. since the data contains non-detectable values, statistical methods for left-censored values from the exponential and weibull distributions are applied and used to evaluate and compare the amount of biogenic amines in fish samples. moreover, a risk of exceeding certain limits of biogenic amine concentrations to protect human health is determined. there are relatively high concentrations of putrescine, cadaverine and histamine in almost all fish species. moreover, there was a significant difference in mean concentrations (distributions of concentrations, respectively) of histamine, tyramine and spermidine among the species.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
this study assessed the quality of vegetation cover in the parque estadual das várzeas do rio ivinhema (pevri, upper paraná river basin, ms, brazil), the concentration of metals (cd, pb, cr, cu, fe, zn and ni) in water and muscle and hepatic tissues of five fish species collected in the pevri - hemiodus orthonops, leporinus friderici, prochilodus lineatus, pterodoras granulosus and pimelodus maculatus - in addition to non-carcinogenic risk assessment and genotoxicity potential in these species. regarding vegetation index, we found that only 26.25% of the pevri area is occupied by denser vegetation. in the sites analyzed, cd, cu, fe and ni showed high concentrations in water, above the reference values established by the legislation. in the muscle and hepatic tissues of the fish species analyzed, cd and pb values exceeded the reference limits. the genotoxic alterations identified in erythrocytes of the fish species studied were nuclear invagination, nuclear budding, picnosis, binucleated cell and lobulate nucleus. for the non-carcinogenic risk assessment in fish, cd and pb presented values greater than 1, indicating risk in the consumption of these fish. in the bioaccumulation factor, cd and pb were greater than 100 in all fish species analyzed, except for pb in l. friderici. the results indicated that the water resources of the pevri are being affected by some type of contaminant, probably due to anthropic activities carried out around the park or carried from the upper portions of the basin through the drainage system.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
ammonia removal biofilters can be a potential source of nitrous oxide (n2o) production as a result of microbial nitrification and denitrification. in this study, these two n2o generation pathways was quantified using isotopic site preference values (sp, 33‰ for nitrification and 0‰ for denitrification) in a 204-d operation. tests with two moisture conditions (45% and 55%) and three inlet nh3 concentrations (35, 18 and 0 ppmv) were performed. a 55+% nh3 removal efficiency was achieved in biofilters with 35 and 18 ppmv ammonia supply, but no significant difference (p > 0.05) was found between the moisture treatments. results showed that biofilters were clearly net sources of n2o, and biofilters with higher moisture content generated significantly (p < 0.05) higher n2o concentration. the n2o generation did not stop even after the biofilters were terminated. the percentage of inlet nh3-n converted into n2o-n were 5.2%, 8.5% for biofilters with 45% moisture content, and 14.8%, 10.8% for those with 55% moisture content. gene abundance of amoa and nosz in packing materials (taken on days 64, 107, 140, 180 and 204) increased due to nh3 input reaching the highest on day 140 and then decreased in response to reduced nh3 supply on day 180 and 204. the changes of sp values suggested a shift between nitrification and denitrification with regard to n2o generation. overall, the nitrification was the dominant pathway for n2o generation, but uncertainty exits as well. this study confirmed that nh3-loaded biofilters were net sources of n2o, and use of sp-n2o may be helpful in better understanding the processes responsible for such emissions.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
epa 3051a and aqua regia (ar) are widely adopted by global environmental agencies to assess soil quality in relation to potentially harmful elements (phe). however, previous study has shown the formation of large amounts of short-range order materials (sro) in the residues of these extractions. residues obtained from the 3051a and ar were recovered from filter papers. to characterize the sro in these residues, sequential extractions were performed with 0.2 mol l-1 ammonium oxalate (ao) and 0.5 mol l-1 naoh. on average (n = 15), the 3051a and ar residues contained 37% and 60% of sro, respectively. the largest amounts of sro formed in the ar residue was in sample 5 (99% of sro). the main component of the sro was al2o3-ao, fe2o3-ao and sio2-naoh. the formation of sro and phe resorption levels were random and highly dependent on the mineralogy of the soil clay fraction. soils rich in smectites, which are more common in temperate regions, formed larger amounts of sro. the association of pb with the sro was more pronounced in the 3051a residue than in the ar residue. if sro was not extracted after 3051a, in sample 7, for example, 595 mg kg-1 of pb (10.2%) would have not been accounted. the maximum phe resorptions in sro were (%): pb - 10; cu - 470; ba - 280; as - 21. the underestimation of phe contents due to resorption mechanisms may lead an environmental agency to certify the use of an area contaminated with phe.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
this study demonstrated statistical profiling consisting of the analysis of variance (anova) and fold change to efficiently identify transformation products of an organic model compound (i.e., carbamazepine, cbz) in ozonation. to this end, liquid chromatography (lc)-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (qtof-ms) was employed to measure the accurate masses of cbz transformation products. subsequently, statistical profiling was applied to differentiating features that are uniquely present in the ozonated samples from those in blanks and control (i.e., cbz sample without ozonation). the identified transformation products had significant statistical power (i.e., power, 1-β > 0.8) in post hoc power analysis, which suggests that the profiling procedure can be an efficient means of reducing false negative in data analysis. 2-quinazolinone was newly reported here as a tentative transformation of cbz during ozonation. in addition, a transformation product with one less carbon than cbz, often called "anomalous" transformation product, was also found. while statistical profiling was applied to a model experiment, such an approach can be further utilized to screen many features with a higher data complexity such as non-targeted screening (nts) and non-target analysis (nta) for environmental samples.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
five new maleimide derivatives, (+)- and (-)- farinomalein f (1), (+)- and (-)- farinomalein g (2), farinomalein h (3) and one new linearly fused prenylated indole alkaloid phomoamide (8), along with five known compounds 4-7 and 9 were isolated from the mangrove endophytic fungus phomopsis sp. sysuqyp-23. their structures and absolute configurations were determined by hresims, spectroscopic and electronic circular dichroism (ecd) calculations. bioassay results showed that compounds 3-9 exhibited significant inhibitory activities against nitric oxide (no) production in lipopolysaccharides (lps) induced raw 264.7 cells, with ic50 values ranging from 4.5 to 25 μm. moreover, the molecular docking study implied the probable binding interaction of compounds 4 and 5 with nitric oxide synthase.copyright © 2020. published by elsevier inc.
moenomycin a, the well-known natural product inhibitor of peptidoglycan glycosyltransferase (pgt), is a large amphiphilic molecule of molecular mass of 1583 g/mol and its bioavailablity as a drug is relatively poor. in searching for small-molecule ligands with high inhibition ability targeting the enzyme, we found that the addition of hydrophobic groups to an isatin-based inhibitor of bacterial pgt significantly improves its inhibition against the enzyme, as well as its antibacterial activity. the improvement in enzymatic inhibition can be attributed to a better binding of the small molecule inhibitor to the hydrophobic region of the membrane-bound bacterial cell wall synthesis enzyme and the plasma membrane. in the present study, a total of 20 new amphiphilic compounds were systematically designed and the relationship between molecular hydrophobicity and the antibacterial activity by targeting at pgt was demonstrated. the in vitro lipid ii transglycosylation inhibitory effects (ic50) against e. coli pbp1b and mics of the compounds were investigated. optimized results including mic values of 6 μg/ml for mssa, mrsa, b. subtilis and 12 μg/ml for e. coli were obtained with an isatin derivative 5m which has a molecular mass of 335 g/mol.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
a series of pyridoxine-resveratrol hybrids were designed and synthesized as monoamine oxidase b inhibitors for the treatment of parkinson's disease. most of them exhibited potent inhibitory activities on mao-b with high selectivity. specifically, compounds 12a, 12g and 12l showed the most excellent inhibition to hmao-b with the ic50 values of 0.01 μm, 0.01 μm and 0.02 μm, respectively. further reversibility study demonstrated that 12a and 12l were reversible and 12g was irreversible mao-b inhibitors. molecular docking studies of mao revealed the binding mode and high selectivity of these compounds with mao-b. in addition, these three representative compounds also exhibited low cytotoxicity and excellent neuroprotective effect in the test on h2o2-induced pc-12 cell injury. moreover, 12a, 12g and 12l showed good antioxidant activities and high blood-brain barrier permeability. overall, all of these results highlighted 12a, 12g and 12l were potential and excellent mao-b inhibitors for pd treatment.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
in this study, human lung cancer spc-a-1 cells were cultured with seleno-chitosan to study the mechanism of apoptosis. cck-8 results showed that with the increase of the concentration of seleno-chitosan and the prolongation of culture time, the inhibition on the proliferation of spc-a-1 cells gradually increased, and the morphology of spc-a-1 cells changed obviously. flow cytometry result suggested that the concentration of calcium ion, level of reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial membrane potential increased. western blot showed that seleno-chitosan induced apoptosis via the mitochondrial pathway in spc-a-1. eventually, we found 15 proteins that were expressed abnormally by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (maldi-tof ms), which were all related to fas/fasl pathway of cells.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
the phytochemical study on the stems of clausena lenis resulted in the isolation of three new prenylated coumarins, clauselenins a-c (1-3), together with nine known prenylated coumarins (4-12). the chemical structures of new prenylated coumarins (1-3) were elucidated by means of comprehensive spectral analyses and the known compounds (4-12) were determined by means of comparing their experimental spectral data with those described data in the literatures. all isolated prenylated coumarins were assessed for their anti-inflammatory effects together with anti-hiv activities in vitro. prenylated coumarins 1-12 displayed remarkable inhibitory effects against nitric oxide (no) production induced by lipopolysaccharide in mouse macrophage raw 264.7 cells in vitro with the ic50 values which are comparable to hydrocortisone. meanwhile, prenylated coumarins 1-12 exhibited considerable anti-hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) activities possessing ec50 values in the range of 0.17-9.08 µm. these findings indicate that the isolation and identification of these prenylated coumarins with pronounced anti-inflammatory effects as well as anti-hiv activities separated from the stems of c. lenis could be of great significance to the development of new anti-inflammatory and anti-hiv agents and their potential applications in the pharmaceutical industry.copyright © 2020 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
bilinguals have a remarkable ability to juggle two languages. a central question in the field is concerned with the control mechanisms that enable bilinguals to switch language with ease. theoretical models and neuroimaging evidence suggest that a range of control processes are at play during language switching, and their underlying neural mechanisms are closely related to executive function. what remains unclear is when these control processes are engaged in language switching. in this study, we used magnetoencephalography (meg) to examine the brain activity while unbalanced mandarin-english bilinguals performed a digit-naming task with cued language switching. following presentation of the language cue, an asymmetrical switch effect was observed in the left inferior frontal gyrus (ifg), where switch-related increase in evoked brain activity was larger for switching into the non-dominant language. following presentation of the naming target, evoked brain activity in the right ifg was larger when naming was required in the non-dominant language compared to the dominant language. we conclude that control processes take place in two stages during language switching, with the left ifg resolving interference following cue presentation and the right ifg inhibiting competing labels following target presentation.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
while microplastics (1 μm-5 mm) contamination is creating public concern, nanoplastics (<1000 nm) might create even more serious environmental contamination issues. this is likely due to the smaller size/higher specific surface area of nanoplastics which works more efficiently as a vector for other contaminants' transportation and fate, to release the formulation additives and to be accumulated in the human body. the research on nanoplastics is currently hampered by the absence of an effective characterisation method, although x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy/scanning electron microscopy (xps/sem) is reportedly dominating the nanoplastics characterisation approaches. recently, imaging technology, which provides direct visualisation of the targets, is attracting increased attention. in this study, we demonstrate that raman imaging can be employed to visualise and identify microplastics and nanoplastics down to 100 nm, by distinguishing the laser spot, the pixel size/image resolution, the nanoplastics size/position (within a laser spot), the raman signal intensity, and via the sample preparation etc. we also validate this technique for the analysis of paint-polishing dust samples that have been collected from a driveway when a vehicle's clear coating of poly-acrylic was polished by hand. we estimate that billions-trillions of microplastics/nanoplastics ranging from ∼7 μm down to ∼200 nm have been generated by hand-polishing an engine hood.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
the aim of the current study is to identify distinct cytokine profiles in relation to self-perceived cognitive trajectories. in our study cohort (n = 128), early-stage breast cancer patients were categorized into no impairment reported, acute, delayed, persistent and intermittent cognitive decline respectively. pro-inflammatory cytokines were elevated compared to baseline; with tnf-α implicated in the acute cognitive trajectory while il-6 and il-8 were involved in the persistent cognitive trajectory. our findings help to further our understanding of cytokine profiles implicated in cancer-related cognitive impairment (crci) and support the use of cytokine levels as biomarkers of cognitive decline over time.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
background: insomnia and depression are highly prevalent perinatal complications. ruminating on stress is etiologically implicated in both disorders, and ruminating while trying to fall asleep has been linked to insomnia and depression during pregnancy. incompatible with rumination is everyday mindfulness, i.e., living with intentional and nonjudgmental awareness of internal and external experiences in the present moment. responding to stress mindfully may protect against stress-related perinatal complications such as insomnia and depression. the present study described the association between everyday mindfulness and nocturnal rumination, and examined whether these trait characteristics were independently related to perinatal insomnia and depression.methods: cross-sectional and secondary analysis of existing data from 65 pregnant women recruited from a multisite hospital in metro detroit, mi, usa. subjects completed online surveys including the insomnia severity index, edinburgh postnatal depression scale, presleep arousal scale, and the revised cognitive and affective mindfulness scale.results: over half (53.8%) of women screened positive for clinical insomnia and 12.3% screened positive for major depression. women high in mindfulness, relative to those low in mindfulness, reported less nocturnal rumination (cohen's d=1.16), insomnia symptoms (cohen's d=1.24), and depressive symptoms (cohen's d=1.35). multivariate linear regression revealed that both mindfulness (β=-.24, p=.03) and rumination (β=.38, p<.01) were independently associated with insomnia. similarly, a multivariate model showed that mindfulness (β=-.41, p<.001) and rumination (β=.35, p<.01) were independently associated with depression.conclusions: ruminating in bed at night is strongly associated with insomnia and depression during pregnancy, whereas mindfulness may potentially protect against these stress-related perinatal complications.copyright © 2019 national sleep foundation. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
objective: the present study investigated the relationship between difficulty initiating sleep and depressed mood and whether it is mediated by repetitive negative thinking. a moderating role of perfectionism was also examined.methods: we surveyed 393 adolescents aged 14 to 20 years (m = 17.32, sd = 1.90) via an online questionnaire that assessed difficulty initiating sleep, repetitive negative thinking, perfectionism, and depressed mood.results: results indicated that repetitive negative thinking fully mediated the relationship between difficulty initiating sleep and depressed mood. in addition, this relationship was moderated by perfectionism, specifically, the relationship between repetitive negative thinking and depressed mood was stronger among more perfectionistic adolescents.conclusions: these findings highlight that repetitive negative thinking is significantly associated with both difficulty initiating sleep and depressed mood, supporting the conceptualization of repetitive negative thinking as a transdiagnostic process. further, individual differences in perfectionism may amplify the relationship between repetitive negative thinking and mood. the role of repetitive negative thinking and perfectionism in explaining the link between sleep onset problems and depressed mood has important clinical implications through providing possible treatment targets.copyright © 2019 national sleep foundation. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
background: pediatric asthma remains a public health challenge with enormous impact worldwide.objective: the aim of this study was to identify and prioritize unmet clinical needs in pediatric asthma, which could be used to guide future research and policy activities.methods: we first identified unmet needs through an open-question survey administered to international experts in pediatric asthma who were members of the pediatric asthma in real life think tank. prioritization of topics was then achieved through a second, extensive survey with global reach, of multiple stakeholders (leading experts, researchers, clinicians, patients, policy makers, and the pharmaceutical industry). differences across responder groups were compared.results: a total of 57 unmet clinical need topics identified by international experts were prioritized by 412 participants from 5 continents and 60 countries. prevention of disease progression and prediction of future risk, including persistence into adulthood, emerged as the most urgent research questions. stratified care, based on biomarkers, clinical phenotypes, the children's age, and demographics were also highly rated. the identification of minimum diagnostic criteria in different age groups, cultural perceptions of asthma, and best treatment by age group were priorities for responders from low-middle-income countries. there was good agreement across different stakeholder groups in all domains with some notable exceptions that highlight the importance of involving the whole range of stakeholders in formulation of recommendations.conclusions: different stakeholders agree in the majority of research and strategic (eg, prevention, personalized approach) priorities for pediatric asthma. stakeholder diversity is crucial for highlighting divergent issues that future guidelines should consider.copyright © 2020 american academy of allergy, asthma & immunology. published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
negative urgency (nu: tendency to act rashly when distressed) is the facet of impulsive personality that has been most predictive of binge eating, but less is known about the relative role of positive urgency (pu: tendency to act rashly in response to positive emotions). in addition, most studies have exclusively focused on women and the examination of pathological eating outcomes, using a dimensional symptom approach, has been somewhat limited. this study aimed to replicate and extend upon prior work. we examined the extent to which nu and/or pu are uniquely associated with dysregulated eating, using a latent factor comprised of dimensional symptoms, and directly tested whether effects differ by sex. two independent cross-sectional samples of women and men were used (sample 1: midwestern university, 437 females, 348 males; sample 2: southwestern university, 301 females, 236 males). nu and pu were assessed with the upps-p impulsive behavior scale, and dysregulated eating symptoms (i.e., binge eating, loss of control eating, eating concerns) were assessed with well-validated self-report questionnaires. although both nu and pu showed significant positive associations with dysregulated eating, nu showed the strongest unique relationship with dysregulated eating in both samples. the relative role of pu was weakened in sample 1 and completely attenuated in sample 2 once its shared variance with nu was accounted for. all results were similar in men and women. overall, findings continue to suggest that nu is the form of impulsivity that is most relevant to dysregulated eating in both men and women.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
the 1,7-diacetate-4,10-diacetamide substituted 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane structural unit is common to several responsive magnetic resonance imaging (mri) contrast agents (cas). while some of these complexes (agents capable of sensing fluctuations in zn2+, ca2+ etc. ions) have already been tested in vivo, the detailed physico-chemical characterization of such ligands have not been fully studied. to fill this gap, we synthesized a representative member of this ligand family possessing two acetate and two n-butylacetamide pendant side-arms (do2a2mnbu = 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclodoecane-1,7-di(acetic acid)-4,10-di(n-butylacetamide)), and studied its complexation properties with some essential metal and a few lanthanide(iii) (ln(iii)) ions. our studies revealed that the ligand basicity, the stability of metal ion complexes, the trend of stability constants along the ln(iii) series, the formation rates of the ln(iii) complexes and the exchange rate of the bound water molecule in the gd(iii) complex fell between those of ln(dota)- and ln(dota-tetra(amide))3+ complexes (dota = 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid, dotam = 1,4,7,10-tetrakis(carbamoylmethyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane). the only exception is the stability of cu(do2a2mnbu) which was found to be only slightly lower than that of cu(dota)2- (log kcul = 19.85 vs. 21.98). this is likely reflects exclusive coordination of the negatively charged acetate donor atoms to the cu2+ ion forming an octahedral complex with the amides remaining uncoordinated. the only anomaly observed during the study was the rates of acid assisted dissociation of the ln(iii) complexes, which occur at a rate similar to those observed for the ln(dota)- complexes. these data indicate that even though the ln(do2a2mnbu)+ complexes have lower thermodynamic stabilities, their kinetic inertness should be sufficient for in vivo use.copyright © 2020 the author(s). published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
background: individuals with stroke often experience difficulty in dual-task walking and are prone to falling when walking and talking. previous studies in other populations have suggested that non-invasive brain stimulation could enhance dual-task gait performance by stimulating dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlpfc) or supplementary motor area (sma). it was unclear if the benefits of brain stimulation would be observed in individuals with stroke.research question: would single-session 5 hz rtms applied to dlpfc or sma improve dual-task gait performance in individuals with stroke?methods: this single group repeated measure study included fifteen individuals with left chronic stroke (mean age = 58 years). participants received 5 hz rtms to either dlpfc, sma, or m1 of the left lesioned hemisphere across three different sessions. single- and dual-task gait speed was assessed before and after rtms with the dualtask gait being walking and counting backward by 3 s.results: we observed that rtms to left dlpfc resulted in a greater increase in dual-task gait speed, but not single-task gait speed, compared to the other two stimulation sites (m1 and sma) but the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.06). five out of fifteen participants demonstrated a clinically significant improvement in dual-task gait speed (> 0.1 m/s) after rtms to dlpfc.significances: the results suggest that dlpfc could be a potential treatment target to improve dual-task gait performance in persons with chronic stroke.copyright © 2020 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
wet skid-resistance is of paramount importance for road safety as it has been recognized to affect wet-road accidents. recently european regulations are introducing mandatory classification for tyre friction performance by means of tyre labelling procedure. in this paper an experimental study has been carried out in order to search for a relationship between indexes employed in the tyre and pavement classification. coupled friction tests have been performed in a controlled manner on five test track with varying texture properties and significant statistical relationship has been derived between wet grip index (wgi), as defined in the european tyre labelling procedure and the international friction index (ifi), according to world road association (piarc) friction harmonization experiment. if a temperature correction of skid data is applied a good correlation between wgi and ifi can be obtained. although the experimental study has to be integrated with a wider measurement campaign, preliminary results seem to indicate that a unified wet tyre-road classification can be pursued allowing a better awareness of the road safety level among road users.copyright © 2020 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
background: the objective of this study was to test the effect of chemotherapy and/or radical cystectomy (rc) and/or radiotherapy (rt) on survival of patients with non-metastatic small-cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder (sccub).materials and methods: within the surveillance, epidemiology, and end results registry (2001-2016), we identified patients with non-metastatic (t1-4, n0, m0) sccub. treatment was defined as: chemotherapy alone, chemotherapy + rc, and chemotherapy + rt. temporal trends, cumulative incidence plots, and multivariable competing risks regression models were used.results: of 595 patients with sccub, 230 (38.5%), 159 (27%), and 206 (34.5%) were treated with chemotherapy alone, chemotherapy + rc, and chemotherapy + rt, respectively. the rates of chemotherapy + rc increased (estimated annual percentage changes [eapc], +5.9%; p = .002). conversely, chemotherapy alone (eapc, -1.7%; p = .1) and chemotherapy + rt rates decreased (eapc: -2.2%; p = .08). overall, 5-year cancer-specific mortality (csm) rates were 44%, 29%, and 40% for patients treated with chemotherapy alone, chemotherapy + rc, and chemotherapy + rt, respectively (p = .004). relative to chemotherapy alone, patients treated with chemotherapy + rc experienced lower csm (hazard ratio, 0.5; p < .001). conversely, patients treated with chemotherapy + rt did not exhibit any csm benefit (hazard ratio, 0.8; p = .2), when compared with chemotherapy alone.conclusion: in contemporary patients with sccub with non-metastatic disease, the rates of chemotherapy + rc are increasing. conversely, the rates of combined chemotherapy with rt and chemotherapy alone are decreasing. these patterns of treatment are in agreement with better cancer control in patients with sccub. in consequence, until more robust data become available, the combination of chemotherapy and rc should represent the recommended treatment strategy.copyright © 2019 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.